how are you donald. well thank you lester and thanks to hofstra for hosting us. the central question in this election is really what kind of country we want to be and what kind of future well build together. today is my granddaughters second birthday so i think about this a lot. first we have to build an economy that works for everyone not just those at the top. that means we need new jobs good jobs with rising incomes. i want us to invest in you. i want us to invest in your future. that means jobs in infrastructure in advanced manufacturing innovation and technology clean renewable energy and small business because most of the new jobs will come from small business. we also have to make the economy fairer. that starts with raising the national minimum wage and also guarantee finally equal pay for womens work. i also want to see more companies do profitsharing. if you help create the profits you should be able to share in them not just the executives at the top. and i want us to do more to support people who are struggling to balance family and work. ive heard from so many of you about the difficult choices you face and the stresses that youre under. so lets have paid family leave earned sick days. lets be sure we have affordable child care and debtfree college. how are we going to do it. were going to do it by having the wealthy pay their fair share and close the corporate loopholes. finally we tonight are on the stage together donald trump and i. donald its good to be with you. were going to have a debate where we are talking about the important issues facing our country. you have to judge us who can shoulder the immense awesome responsibilities of the presidency who can put into action the plans that will make your life better. i hope that i will be able to earn your vote on november 8th. well i think that trade is an important issue. of course we are 5 percent of the worlds population we have to trade with the other 95 percent. and we need to have smart fair trade deals. we also though need to have a tax system that rewards work and not just financial transactions. and the kind of plan that donald has put forth would be trickledown economics all over again. in fact it would be the most extreme version the biggest tax cuts for the top percent of the people in this country than weve ever had. i call it trumpedup trickledown because thats exactly what it would be. that is not how we grow the economy. we just have a different view about whats best for growing the economy how we make investments that will actually produce jobs and rising incomes. i think we come at it from somewhat different perspectives. i understand that. you know donald was very fortunate in his life and thats all to his benefit. he started his business with .4 million borrowed from his father and he really believes that the more you help wealthy people the better off well be and that everything will work out from there. i dont buy that. i have a different experience. my father was a smallbusinessman. he worked really hard. he printed drapery fabrics on long tables where he pulled out those fabrics and he went down with a silkscreen and dumped the paint in and took the squeegee and kept going. and so what i believe is the more we can do for the middle class the more we can invest in you your education your skills your future the better we will be off and the better well grow. thats the kind of economy i want us to see again. well lets stop for a second and remember where we were eight years ago. we had the worst financial crisis the great recession the worst since the .930s. that was in large part because of tax policies that slashed taxes on the wealthy failed to invest in the middle class took their eyes off of wall street and created a perfect storm. in fact donald was one of the people who rooted for the housing crisis. he said back in 2006 gee i hope it does collapse because then i can go in and buy some and make some money. well it did collapse. nine million people  nine million people lost their jobs. five million people lost their homes. and .3 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. now we have come back from that abyss. and it has not been easy. so were now on the precipice of having a potentially much better economy but the last thing we need to do is to go back to the policies that failed us in the first place. independent experts have looked at what ive proposed and looked at what donalds proposed and basically theyve said this that if his tax plan which would blow up the debt by over 5 trillion and would in some instances disadvantage middleclass families compared to the wealthy were to go into effect we would lose 3.5 million jobs and maybe have another recession. theyve looked at my plans and theyve said ok if we can do this and i intend to get it done we will have .0 million more new jobs because we will be making investments where we can grow the economy. take clean energy. some country is going to be the clean energy superpower of the 2.st century. donald thinks that climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the chinese. i think its real. i think science is real. and i think its important that we grip this and deal with it both at home and abroad. and heres what we can do. we can deploy a half a billion more solar panels. we can have enough clean energy to power every home. we can build a new modern electric grid. thats a lot of jobs thats a lot of new economic activity. so ive tried to be very specific about what we can and should do and i am determined that were going to get the economy really moving again building on the progress weve made over the last eight years but never going back to what got us in trouble in the first place. well actually... well actually i have thought about this quite a bit. and i have  well not quite that long. i think my husband did a pretty good job in the .990s. i think a lot about what worked and how we can make it work again... ... million new jobs a balanced budget... incomes went up for everybody. manufacturing jobs went up also in the .990s if were actually going to look at the facts. when i was in the senate i had a number of trade deals that came before me and i held them all to the same test. will they create jobs in america. will they raise incomes in america. and are they good for our national security. some of them i voted for. the biggest one a multinational one known as cafta i voted against. and because i hold the same standards as i look at all of these trade deals. but lets not assume that trade is the only challenge we have in the economy. i think it is a part of it and ive said what im going to do. im going to have a special prosecutor. were going to enforce the trade deals we have and were going to hold people accountable. when i was secretary of state we actually increased american exports globally 30 percent. we increased them to china 50 percent. so i know how to really work to get new jobs and to get exports that helped to create more new jobs. well ive been a senator donald... and i have been a secretary of state... and i have done a lot... well thats your opinion. that is your opinion. well that is just not accurate. i was against it once it was finally negotiated and the terms were laid out. i wrote about that in... no. well donald i know you live in your own reality but that is not the facts. the facts are  i did say i hoped it would be a good deal but when it was negotiated... ... which i was not responsible for i concluded it wasnt. i wrote about that in my book... ... before you even announced. look there are differences... there are... there are different views about whats good for our country our economy and our leadership in the world. and i think its important to look at what we need to do to get the economy going again. thats why i said new jobs with rising incomes investments not in more tax cuts that would add 5 trillion to the debt. but in  oh but i do. in fact i have written a book about it. its called stronger together. you can pick it up tomorrow at a bookstore... ... or at an airport near you. but its because i see this  we need to have strong growth fair growth sustained growth. we also have to look at how we help families balance the responsibilities at home and the responsibilities at business. so we have a very robust set of plans. and people have looked at both of our plans have concluded that mine would create .0 million jobs and yours would lose us 3.5 million jobs and explode the debt which would have a recession. that cant  that cant be left to stand. i kind of assumed that there would be a lot of these charges and claims and so... so we have taken the home page of my website hillaryclinton.com and weve turned it into a factchecker. so if you want to see in realtime what the facts are please go and take a look. because what i have proposed... ... would not add a penny to the debt and your plans would add 5 trillion to the debt. what i have proposed would cut regulations and streamline them for small businesses. what i have proposed would be paid for by raising taxes on the wealthy because they have made all the gains in the economy. and i think its time that the wealthy and corporations paid their fair share to support this country. well at least i have a plan to fight isis. no were not. no were not. thats a  thats  go to the  please fact checkers get to work. i have a feeling that by the end of this evening im going to be blamed for everything thats ever happened. why not. yeah why not. you know just join the debate by saying more crazy things. now let me say this it is absolutely the case... yeah well lets start the clock again lester. weve looked at your tax proposals. i dont see changes in the corporate tax rates or the kinds of proposals youre referring to that would cause the repatriation bringing back of money thats stranded overseas. i happen to support that. i happen to  i happen to support that in a way that will actually work to our benefit. but when i look at what you have proposed you have what is called now the trump loophole because it would so advantage you and the business you do. youve proposed an approach that has a... ... 4 billion tax benefit for your family. and when you look at what you are proposing... ... it is... ... as i said trumpedup trickledown. trickledown did not work. it got us into the mess we were in in 2008 and 2009. slashing taxes on the wealthy hasnt worked. and a lot of really smart wealthy people know that. and they are saying hey we need to do more to make the contributions we should be making to rebuild the middle class. i dont think topdown works in america. i think building the middle class investing in the middle class making college debtfree so more young people can get their education helping people refinance their  their debt from college at a lower rate. those are the kinds of things that will really boost the economy. broadbased inclusive growth is what we need in america not more advantages for people at the very top. well i think youve seen another example of baitand switch here. for 40 years everyone running for president has released their tax returns. you can go and see nearly i think 39 40 years of our tax returns but everyone has done it. we know the irs has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing it when youre under audit. so youve got to ask yourself why wont he release his tax returns. and i think there may be a couple of reasons. first maybe hes not as rich as he says he is. second maybe hes not as charitable as he claims to be. third we dont know all of his business dealings but we have been told through investigative reporting that he owes about 650 million to wall street and foreign banks. or maybe he doesnt want the american people all of you watching tonight to know that hes paid nothing in federal taxes because the only years that anybodys ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license and they showed he didnt pay any federal income tax. so if hes paid zero that means zero for troops zero for vets zero for schools or health. and i think probably hes not all that enthusiastic about having the rest of our country see what the real reasons are because it must be something really important even terrible that hes trying to hide. and the financial disclosure statements they dont give you the tax rate. they dont give you all the details that tax returns would. and it just seems to me that this is something that the american people deserve to see. and i have no reason to believe that hes ever going to release his tax returns because theres something hes hiding. and well guess. well keep guessing at what it might be that hes hiding. but i think the question is were he ever to get near the white house what would be those conflicts. who does he owe money to. well he owes you the answers to that and he should provide them. i do. you know i made a mistake using a private e mail. trump and if i had to do it over again i would obviously do it differently. but im not going to make any excuses. it was a mistake and i take responsibility for that. and maybe because you havent paid any federal income tax for a lot of years. and the other thing i think is importantäó_ ... is if your  if your main claim to be president of the united states is your business then i think we should talk about that. you know your campaign manager said that you built a lot of businesses on the backs of little guys. and indeed i have met a lot of the people who were stiffed by you and your businesses donald. ive met dishwashers painters architects glass installers marble installers drapery installers like my dad was who you refused to pay when they finished the work that you asked them to do. we have an architect in the audience who designed one of your clubhouses at one of your golf courses. its a beautiful facility. it immediately was put to use. and you wouldnt pay what the man needed to be paid what he was charging you to do... well to... do the thousands of people that you have stiffed over the course of your business not deserve some kind of apology from someone who has taken their labor taken the goods that they produced and then refused to pay them. i can only say that im certainly relieved that my late father never did business with you. he provided a good middleclass life for us but the people he worked for he expected the bargain to be kept on both sides. and when we talk about your business youve taken business bankruptcy six times. there are a lot of great businesspeople that have never taken bankruptcy once. you call yourself the king of debt. you talk about leverage. you even at one time suggested that you would try to negotiate down the national debt of the united states. well sometimes theres not a direct transfer of skills from business to government but sometimes what happened in business would be really bad for government. and we need to be very clear about that. well youre right. race remains a significant challenge in our country. unfortunately race still determines too much often determines where people live determines what kind of education in their public schools they can get and yes it determines how theyre treated in the criminal justice system. weve just seen those two tragic examples in both tulsa and charlotte. and weve got to do several things at the same time. we have to restore trust between communities and the police. we have to work to make sure that our police are using the best training the best techniques that theyre well prepared to use force only when necessary. everyone should be respected by the law and everyone should respect the law. right now thats not the case in a lot of our neighborhoods. so i have ever since the first day of my campaign called for criminal justice reform. ive laid out a platform that i think would begin to remedy some of the problems we have in the criminal justice system. but we also have to recognize in addition to the challenges that we face with policing there are so many good brave police officers who equally want reform. so we have to bring communities together in order to begin working on that as a mutual goal. and weve got to get guns out of the hands of people who should not have them. the gun epidemic is the leading cause of death of young african american men more than the next nine causes put together. so we have to do two things as i said. we have to restore trust. we have to work with the police. we have to make sure they respect the communities and the communities respect them. and we have to tackle the plague of gun violence which is a big contributor to a lot of the problems that were seeing today. well ive heard  ive heard donald say this at his rallies and its really unfortunate that he paints such a dire negative picture of black communities in our country. you know the vibrancy of the black church the black businesses that employ so many people the opportunities that so many families are working to provide for their kids. theres a lot that we should be proud of and we should be supporting and lifting up. but we do always have to make sure we keep people safe. there are the right ways of doing it and then there are ways that are ineffective. stopandfrisk was found to be unconstitutional and in part because it was ineffective. it did not do what it needed to do. now i believe in community policing. and in fact violent crime is onehalf of what it was in .99.. property crime is down 40 percent. we just dont want to see it creep back up. weve had 25 years of very good cooperation. but there were some problems some unintended consequences. too many young africanamerican and latino men ended up in jail for nonviolent offenses. and its just a fact that if youre a young africanamerican man and you do the same thing as a young white man you are more likely to be arrested charged convicted and incarcerated. so weve got to address the systemic racism in our criminal justice system. we cannot just say law and order. we have to say  we have to come forward with a plan that is going to divert people from the criminal justice system deal with mandatory minimum sentences which have put too many people away for too long for doing too little. we need to have more second chance programs. im glad that were ending private prisons in the federal system i want to see them ended in the state system. you shouldnt have a profit motivation to fill prison cells with young americans. so there are some positive ways we can work on this. and i believe strongly that commonsense gun safety measures would assist us. right now  and this is something donald has supported along with the gun lobby  right now weve got too many military style weapons on the streets. in a lot of places our police are outgunned. we need comprehensive background checks and we need to keep guns out of the hands of those who will do harm. and we finally need to pass a prohibition on anyone whos on the terrorist watch list from being able to buy a gun in our country. if youre too dangerous to fly you are too dangerous to buy a gun. so there are things we can do and we ought to do it in a bipartisan way. lester i think implicit bias is a problem for everyone not just police. i think unfortunately too many of us in our great country jump to conclusions about each other. and therefore i think we need all of us to be asking hard questions about you know why am i feeling this way. but when it comes to policing since it can have literally fatal consequences i have said in my first budget we would put money into that budget to help us deal with implicit bias by retraining a lot of our police officers. ive met with a group of very distinguished experienced police chiefs a few weeks ago. they admit its an issue. theyve got a lot of concerns. mental health is one of the biggest concerns because now police are having to handle a lot of really difficult mental health problems on the street. they want support they want more training they want more assistance. and i think the federal government could be in a position where we would offer and provide that. well its also fair to say if were going to talk about mayors that under the current mayor crime has continued to drop including murders. so there is... no im not. new york  new york has done an excellent job. and i give credit  i give credit across the board going back two mayors two police chiefs because it has worked. and other communities need to come together to do what will work as well. look one murder is too many. but it is important that we learn about what has been effective. and not go to things that sound good that really did not have the kind of impact that we would want. who disagrees with keeping neighborhoods safe. but lets also add no one should disagree about respecting the rights of young men who live in those neighborhoods. and so we need to do a better job of working again with the communities faith communities business communities as well as the police to try to deal with this problem. well i  i do think... i think  i think  i think donald just criticized me for preparing for this debate. and yes i did. and you know what else i prepared for. i prepared to be president. and i think thats a good thing. well just listen to what you heard. and clearly as donald just admitted he knew he was going to stand on this debate stage and lester holt was going to be asking us questions so he tried to put the whole racist birther lie to bed. but it cant be dismissed that easily. he has really started his political activity based on this racist lie that our first black president was not an american citizen. there was absolutely no evidence for it but he persisted he persisted year after year because some of his supporters people that he was trying to bring into his fold apparently believed it or wanted to believe it. but remember donald started his career back in .973 being sued by the justice department for racial discrimination because he would not rent apartments in one of his developments to africanamericans and he made sure that the people who worked for him understood that was the policy. he actually was sued twice by the justice department. so he has a long record of engaging in racist behavior. and the birther lie was a very hurtful one. you know barack obama is a man of great dignity. and i could tell how much it bothered him and annoyed him that this was being touted and used against him. but i like to remember what michelle obama said in her amazing speech at our democratic national convention when they go low we go high. and barack obama went high despite donald trumps best efforts to bring him down. well i think cyber security cyber warfare will be one of the biggest challenges facing the next president because clearly were facing at this point two different kinds of adversaries. there are the independent hacking groups that do it mostly for commercial reasons to try to steal information that they can use to make money. but increasingly we are seeing cyber attacks coming from states organs of states. the most recent and troubling of these has been russia. theres no doubt now that russia has used cyber attacks against all kinds of organizations in our country and i am deeply concerned about this. i know donalds very praiseworthy of vladimir putin but putin is playing a really... ... tough long game here. and one of the things hes done is to let loose cyber attackers to hack into government files to hack into personal files hack into the democratic national committee. and we recently have learned that you know that this is one of their preferred methods of trying to wreak havoc and collect information. we need to make it very clear  whether its russia china iran or anybody else  the united states has much greater capacity. and we are not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go after our information our privatesector information or our publicsector information. and were going to have to make it clear that we dont want to use the kinds of tools that we have. we dont want to engage in a different kind of warfare. but we will defend the citizens of this country. and the russians need to understand that. i think theyve been treating it as almost a probing how far would we go how much would we do. and thats why i was so  i was so shocked when donald publicly invited putin to hack into americans. that is just unacceptable. its one of the reasons why 50 national security officials who served in republican information  in administrations... ... have said that donald is unfit to be the commander inchief. its comments like that that really worry people who understand the threats that we face. well i think there are a number of issues that we should be addressing. i have put forth a plan to defeat isis. it does involve going after them online. i think we need to do much more with our tech companies to prevent isis and their operatives from being able to use the internet to radicalize even direct people in our country and europe and elsewhere. but we also have to intensify our air strikes against isis and eventually support our arab and kurdish partners to be able to actually take out isis in raqqa end their claim of being a caliphate. were making progress. our military is assisting in iraq. and were hoping that within the year well be able to push isis out of iraq and then you know really squeeze them in syria. but we have to be cognizant of the fact that theyve had foreign fighters coming to volunteer for them foreign money foreign weapons so we have to make this the top priority. and i would also do everything possible to take out their leadership. i was involved in a number of efforts to take out al qaida leadership when i was secretary of state including of course taking out bin laden. and i think we need to go after baghdadi as well make that one of our organizing principles. because weve got to defeat isis and weve got to do everything we can to disrupt their propaganda efforts online. well i hope the factcheckers are turning up the volume and really working hard. donald supported the invasion of iraq. that is absolutely proved over and over again. he actually advocated for the actions we took in libya and urged that gadhafi be taken out after actually doing some business with him one time. but the larger point  and he says this constantly  is george w. bush made the agreement about when american troops would leave iraq not barack obama. and the only way that american troops could have stayed in iraq is to get an agreement from the theniraqi government that would have protected our troops and the iraqi government would not give that. but lets talk about the question you asked lester. the question you asked is what do we do here in the united states. thats the most important part of this. how do we prevent attacks. how do we protect our people. and i think weve got to have an intelligence surge where we are looking for every scrap of information. i was so proud of law enforcement in new york in minnesota in new jersey. you know they responded so quickly so professionally to the attacks that occurred by rahami. and they brought him down. and we may find out more information because he is still alive which may prove to be an intelligence benefit. so weve got to do everything we can to vacuum up intelligence from europe from the middle east. that means weve got to work more closely with our allies and thats something that donald has been very dismissive of. were working with nato the longest military alliance in the history of the world to really turn our attention to terrorism. were working with our friends in the middle east many of which as you know are muslim majority nations. donald has consistently insulted muslims abroad muslims at home when we need to be cooperating with muslim nations and with the american muslim community. theyre on the front lines. they can provide information to us that we might not get anywhere else. they need to have close working cooperation with law enforcement in these communities not be alienated and pushed away as some of donalds rhetoric unfortunately has led to. lester weve covered... weve covered this ground. whew ok. lets talk about two important issues that were briefly mentioned by donald first nato. you know nato as a military alliance has something called article 5 and basically it says this an attack on one is an attack on all. and you know the only time its ever been invoked. after 9.. when the 28 nations of nato said that they would go to afghanistan with us to fight terrorism something that they still are doing by our side. with respect to iran when i became secretary of state iran was weeks away from having enough nuclear material to form a bomb. they had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle under the bush administration. they had built covert facilities. they had stocked them with centrifuges that were whirling away. and we had sanctioned them. i voted for every sanction against iran when i was in the senate but it wasnt enough. so i spent a yearandahalf putting together a coalition that included russia and china to impose the toughest sanctions on iran. and we did drive them to the negotiating table. and my successor john kerry and president obama got a deal that put a lid on irans nuclear program without firing a single shot. thats diplomacy. thats coalitionbuilding. thats working with other nations. the other day i saw donald saying that there were some iranian sailors on a ship in the waters off of iran and they were taunting american sailors who were on a nearby ship. he said you know if they taunted our sailors id blow them out of the water and start another war. thats not good judgment. that is not the right temperament to be commanderin chief to be taunted. and the worst part... ... of what we heard donald say has been about nuclear weapons. he has said repeatedly that he didnt care if other nations got nuclear weapons japan south korea even saudi arabia. it has been the policy of the united states democrats and republicans to do everything we could to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. he even said well you know if there were nuclear war in east asia well you know thats fine... ... have a good time folks. and in fact his cavalier attitude about nuclear weapons is so deeply troubling. that is the numberone threat we face in the world. and it becomes particularly threatening if terrorists ever get their hands on any nuclear material. so a man who can be provoked by a tweet should not have his fingers anywhere near the nuclear codes as far as i think anyone with any sense about this should be concerned. its a good one though. it well describes the problem. well let me  let me start by saying words matter. words matter when you run for president. and they really matter when you are president. and i want to reassure our allies in japan and south korea and elsewhere that we have mutual defense treaties and we will honor them. it is essential that americas word be good. and so i know that this campaign has caused some questioning and worries on the part of many leaders across the globe. ive talked with a number of them. but i want to  on behalf of myself and i think on behalf of a majority of the american people say that you know our word is good. its also important that we look at the entire global situation. theres no doubt that we have other problems with iran. but personally id rather deal with the other problems having put that lid on their nuclear program than still to be facing that. and donald never tells you what he would do. would he have started a war. would he have bombed iran. if hes going to criticize a deal that has been very successful in giving us access to iranian facilities that we never had before then he should tell us what his alternative would be. but its like his plan to defeat isis. he says its a secret plan but the only secret is that he has no plan. so we need to be more precise in how we talk about these issues. people around the word follow our presidential campaigns so closely trying to get hints about what we will do. can they rely on us. are we going to lead the world with strength and in accordance with our values. thats what i intend to do. i intend to be a leader of our country that people can count on both here at home and around the world to make decisions that will further peace and prosperity but also stand up to bullies whether theyre abroad or at home. we cannot let those who would try to destabilize the world to interfere with american interests and security... ... to be given any opportunities at all. well as soon as he travels to ..2 countries and negotiates a peace deal a ceasefire a release of dissidents an opening of new opportunities in nations around the world or even spends .. hours testifying in front of a congressional committee he can talk to me about stamina. well one thing. one thing lester. you know he tried to switch from looks to stamina. but this is a man who has called women pigs slobs and dogs and someone who has said pregnancy is an inconvenience to employers who has said... .... women dont deserve equal pay unless they do as good a job as men. and one of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest. he loves beauty contests supporting them and hanging around them. and he called this woman miss piggy. then he called her miss housekeeping because she was latina. donald she has a name. her name is alicia machado. and she has become a u.s. citizen and you can bet... ... shes going to vote this november. well i support our democracy. and sometimes you win sometimes you lose. but i certainly will support the outcome of this election. and i know donalds trying very hard to plant doubts about it but i hope the people out there understand this elections really up to you. its not about us so much as it is about you and your families and the kind of country and future you want. so i sure hope you will get out and vote as though your future depended on it because i think it does. well thank you. are you a teacher. yes i think that thats a very good question because ive heard from lots of teachers and parents about some of their concerns about some of the things that are being said and done in this campaign. and i think it is very important for us to make clear to our children that our country really is great because were good. and we are going to respect one another lift each other up. we are going to be looking for ways to celebrate our diversity and we are going to try to reach out to every boy and girl as well as every adult to bring them in to working on behalf of our country. i have a very positive and optimistic view about what we can do together. thats why the slogan of my campaign is stronger together because i think if we work together if we overcome the divisiveness that sometimes sets americans against one another and instead we make some big goals  and ive set forth some big goals getting the economy to work for everyone not just those at the top making sure that we have the best education system from preschool through college and making it affordable and so much else. if we set those goals and we go together to try to achieve them theres nothing in my opinion that america cant do. so thats why i hope that we will come together in this campaign. obviously im hoping to earn your vote im hoping to be elected in november and i can promise you i will work with every american. i want to be the president for all americans regardless of your political beliefs where you come from what you look like your religion. i want us to heal our country and bring it together because thats i think the best way for us to get the future that our children and our grandchildren deserve.  well like everyone else ive spent a lot of time thinking over the last 48 hours about what we heard and saw. you know with prior republican nominees for president i disagreed with them on politics policies principles but i never questioned their fitness to serve. donald trump is different. i said starting back in june that he was not fit to be president and commanderinchief. and many republicans and independents have said the same thing. what we all saw and heard on friday was donald talking about women what he thinks about women what he does to women. and he has said that the video doesnt represent who he is. but i think its clear to anyone who heard it that it represents exactly who he is. because weve seen this throughout the campaign. we have seen him insult women. weve seen him rate women on their appearance ranking them from one to ten. weve seen him embarrass women on tv and on twitter. we saw him after the first debate spend nearly a week denigrating a former miss universe in the harshest most personal terms. so yes this is who donald trump is. but its not only women and its not only this video that raises questions about his fitness to be our president because he has also targeted immigrants african americans latinos people with disabilities pows muslims and so many others. so this is who donald trump is. and the question for us the question our country must answer is that this is not who we are. thats why  to go back to your question  i want to send a message  we all should  to every boy and girl and indeed to the entire world that america already is great but we are great because we are good and we will respect one another and we will work with one another and we will celebrate our diversity.  these are very important values to me because this is the america that i know and love. and i can pledge to you tonight that this is the america that i will serve if im so fortunate enough to become your president.  well first let me start by saying that so much of what hes just said is not right but he gets to run his campaign any way he chooses. he gets to decide what he wants to talk about. instead of answering peoples questions talking about our agenda laying out the plans that we have that we think can make a better life and a better country thats his choice. when i hear something like that i am reminded of what my friend michelle obama advised us all when they go low you go high. and look if this were just about one video maybe what hes saying tonight would be understandable but everyone can draw their own conclusions at this point about whether or not the man in the video or the man on the stage respects women. but he never apologizes for anything to anyone.  he never apologized to mr. and mrs. khan the gold star family whose son captain khan died in the line of duty in iraq. and donald insulted and attacked them for weeks over their religion. he never apologized to the distinguished federal judge who was born in indiana but donald said he couldnt be trusted to be a judge because his parents were quote mexican. he never apologized to the reporter that he mimicked and mocked on national television and our children were watching. and he never apologized for the racist lie that president obama was not born in the united states of america. he owes the president an apology he owes our country an apology and he needs to take responsibility for his actions and his words.  ... because everything he just said is absolutely false but im not surprised.  in the first debate ... i told people that it would be impossible to be factchecking donald all the time. id never get to talk about anything i want to do and how were going to really make lives better for people. so once again go to hillaryclinton.com. we have literally trump  you can fact check him in real time. last time at the first debate we had millions of people fact checking so i expect well have millions more fact checking because you know it is  its just awfully good that someone with the temperament of donald trump is not in charge of the law in our country.  well martha first let me say  and ive said before but ill repeat it because i want everyone to hear it  that was a mistake and i take responsibility for using a personal email account. obviously if i were to do it over again i would not. im not making any excuses. it was a mistake. and i am very sorry about that. but i think its also important to point out where there are some misleading accusations from critics and others. after a yearlong investigation there is no evidence that anyone hacked the server i was using and there is no evidence that anyone can point to at all  anyone who says otherwise has no basis  that any classified material ended up in the wrong hands. i take classified materials very seriously and always have. when i was on the senate armed services committee i was privy to a lot of classified material. obviously as secretary of state i had some of the most important secrets that we possess such as going after bin laden. so i am very committed to taking classified information seriously. and as i said there is no evidence that any classified information ended up in the wrong hands.  look its just not true. and so please go to...  it was personal emails not official.  not  well we turned over 35000 so...  yes thats true i didnt.  i didnt in the first debate and im going to try not to in this debate because id like to get to the questions that the people have brought here tonight to talk to us about.  ok donald. i know youre into big diversion tonight anything to avoid talking about your campaign and the way its exploding and the way republicans are leaving you. but lets at least focus...  ... on some of the issues that people care about tonight. lets get to their questions. if he wants to start he can start. no go ahead donald.  well i think donald was about to say hes going to solve it by repealing it and getting rid of the affordable care act. and im going to fix it because i agree with you. premiums have gotten too high. copays deductibles prescription drug costs and ive laid out a series of actions that we can take to try to get those costs down. but heres what i dont want people to forget when were talking about reining in the costs which has to be the highest priority of the next president when the affordable care act passed it wasnt just that 20 million got insurance who didnt have it before. but that in and of itself was a good thing. i meet these people all the time and they tell me what a difference having that insurance meant to them and their families. but everybody else the .70 million of us who get health insurance through our employees got big benefits. number one insurance companies cant deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. number two no lifetime limits which is a big deal if you have serious health problems. number three women cant be charged more than men for our health insurance which is the way it used to be before the affordable care act. number four if youre under 26 and your parents have a policy you can be on that policy until the age of 26 something that didnt happen before. so i want very much to save what works and is good about the affordable care act. but weve got to get costs down. weve got to provide additional help to small businesses so that they can afford to provide health insurance. but if we repeal it as donald has proposed and start over again all of those benefits i just mentioned are lost to everybody not just people who get their health insurance on the exchange. and then we would have to start all over again. right now we are at 90 percent health insurance coverage. thats the highest weve ever been in our country.  so i want us to get to .00 percent but get costs down and keep quality up.  no i mean he clarified what he meant. and its very clear. look we are in a situation in our country where if we were to start all over again we might come up with a different system. but we have an employerbased system. thats where the vast majority of people get their health care. and the affordable care act was meant to try to fill the gap between people who were too poor and couldnt put together any resources to afford health care namely people on medicaid. obviously medicare which is a singlepayer system which takes care of our elderly and does a great job doing it by the way and then all of the people who were employed but people who were working but didnt have the money to afford insurance and didnt have anybody an employer or anybody else to help them. that was the slot that the obamacare approach was to take. and like i say 20 million people now have health insurance. so if we just rip it up and throw it away what donalds not telling you is we just turn it back to the insurance companies the way it used to be and that means the insurance companies...  ... get to do pretty much whatever they want including saying look im sorry youve got diabetes you had cancer your child has asthma...  ... you may not be able to have insurance because you cant afford it. so lets fix whats broken about it but lets not throw it away and give it all back to the insurance companies and the drug companies. thats not going to work.  well thank you for asking your question. and ive heard this question from a lot of muslimamericans across our country because unfortunately theres been a lot of very divisive dark things said about muslims. and even someone like captain khan the young man who sacrificed himself defending our country in the united states army has been subject to attack by donald. i want to say just a couple of things. first weve had muslims in america since george washington. and weve had many successful muslims. we just lost a particular wellknown one with muhammad ali.  my vision of america is an america where everyone has a place if youre willing to work hard you do your part you contribute to the community. thats what america is. thats what we want america to be for our children and our grandchildren. its also very shortsighted and even dangerous to be engaging in the kind of demagogic rhetoric that donald has about muslims. we need american muslims to be part of our eyes and ears on our front lines. ive worked with a lot of different muslim groups around america. ive met with a lot of them and ive heard how important it is for them to feel that they are wanted and included and part of our country part of our homeland security and thats what i want to see. its also important i intend to defeat isis to do so in a coalition with majority muslim nations. right now a lot of those nations are hearing what donald says and wondering why should we cooperate with the americans. and this is a gift to isis and the terrorists violent jihadist terrorists. we are not at war with islam. and it is a mistake and it plays into the hands of the terrorists to act as though we are. so i want a country where citizens like you and your family are just as welcome as anyone else.  well first of all i will not let anyone into our country that i think poses a risk to us. but there are a lot of refugees women and children  think of that picture we all saw of that 4yearold boy with the blood on his forehead because hed been bombed by the russian and syrian air forces. there are children suffering in this catastrophic war largely i believe because of russian aggression. and we need to do our part. we by no means are carrying anywhere near the load that europe and others are. but we will have vetting that is as tough as it needs to be from our professionals our intelligence experts and others. but it is important for us as a policy you know not to say as donald has said were going to ban people based on a religion. how do you do that. we are a country founded on religious freedom and liberty. how do we do what he has advocated without causing great distress within our own county. are we going to have religious tests when people fly into our country. and how do we expect to be able to implement those. so i thought that what he said was extremely unwise and even dangerous. and indeed you can look at the propaganda on a lot of the terrorists sites and what donald trump says about muslims is used to recruit fighters because they want to create a war between us. and the final thing i would say this is the .0th or .2th time that hes denied being for the war in iraq. we have it on tape. the entire press corps has looked at it. its been debunked but it never stops him from saying whatever he wants to say.  so please...  ... go to hillaryclinton.com and you can see it. well right. as i recall that was something i said about abraham lincoln after having seen the wonderful steven spielberg movie called lincoln. it was a master class watching president lincoln get the congress to approve the .3th amendment. it was principled and it was strategic. and i was making the point that it is hard sometimes to get the congress to do what you want to do and you have to keep working at it. and yes president lincoln was trying to convince some people he used some arguments convincing other people he used other arguments. that was a great  i thought a great display of presidential leadership. but you know lets talk about whats really going on here martha because our intelligence community just came out and said in the last few days that the kremlin meaning putin and the russian government are directing the attacks the hacking on american accounts to influence our election. and wikileaks is part of that as are other sites where the russians hack information we dont even know if its accurate information and then they put it out. we have never in the history of our country been in a situation where an adversary a foreign power is working so hard to influence the outcome of the election. and believe me theyre not doing it to get me elected. theyre doing it to try to influence the election for donald trump.  now maybe because he has praised putin maybe because he says he agrees with a lot of what putin wants to do maybe because he wants to do business in moscow i dont know the reasons. but we deserve answers. and we should demand that donald release all of his tax returns so that people can see what are the entanglements and the financial relationships that he has...  ... with the russians and other foreign powers. well everything youve heard just now from donald is not true. im sorry i have to keep saying this but he lives in an alternative reality. and it is sort of amusing to hear somebody who hasnt paid federal income taxes in maybe 20 years talking about what hes going to do. but ill tell you what hes going to do. his plan will give the wealthy and corporations the biggest tax cuts theyve ever had more than the bush tax cuts by at least a factor of two. donald always takes care of donald and people like donald and this would be a massive gift. and indeed the way that he talks about his tax cuts would end up raising taxes on middleclass families millions of middleclass families. now heres what i want to do. i have said nobody who makes less than 250000 a year  and thats the vast majority of americans as you know  will have their taxes raised because i think weve got to go where the money is. and the money is with people who have taken advantage of every single break in the tax code. and yes when i was a senator i did vote to close corporate loopholes. i voted to close i think one of the loopholes he took advantage of when he claimed a billiondollar loss that enabled him to avoid paying taxes. i want to have a tax on people who are making a million dollars. its called the buffett rule. yes warren buffett is the one whos gone out and said somebody like him should not be paying a lower tax rate than his secretary. i want to have a surcharge on incomes above 5 million. we have to make up for lost times because i want to invest in you. i want to invest in hardworking families. and i think its been unfortunate but its happened that since the great recession the gains have all gone to the top. and we need to reverse that. people like donald who paid zero in taxes zero for our vets zero for our military zero for health and education that is wrong.  and were going to make sure that nobody no corporation and no individual can get away without paying his fair share to support our country.  well here we go again. ive been in favor of getting rid of carried interest for years starting when i was a senator from new york. but thats not the point here.  because i was a senator with a republican president. i will be the president and we will get it done. thats exactly right. you know under our constitution presidents have something called veto power. look he has now said repeatedly 30 years this and 30 years that. so let me talk about my 30 years in public service. im very glad to do so. eight million kids every year have health insurance because when i was first lady i worked with democrats and republicans to create the childrens health insurance program. hundreds of thousands of kids now have a chance to be adopted because i worked to change our adoption and foster care system. after 9.. i went to work with republican mayor governor and president to rebuild new york and to get health care for our first responders who were suffering because they had run toward danger and gotten sickened by it. hundreds of thousands of national guard and reserve members have health care because of work that i did and children have safer medicines because i was able to pass a law that required the dosing to be more carefully done. when i was secretary of state i went around the world advocating for our country but also advocating for womens rights to make sure that women had a decent chance to have a better life and negotiated a treaty with russia to lower nuclear weapons. four hundred pieces of legislation have my name on it as a sponsor or cosponsor when i was a senator for eight years. i worked very hard and was very proud to be reelected in new york by an even bigger margin than i had been elected the first time. and as president i will take that work that bipartisan work that finding common ground because you have to be able to get along with people to get things done in washington.  ive proven that i can and for 30 years ive produced results for people.  well the situation in syria is catastrophic. and every day that goes by we see the results of the regime by assad in partnership with the iranians on the ground the russians in the air bombarding places in particular aleppo where there are hundreds of thousands of people probably about 250000 still left. and there is a determined effort by the russian air force to destroy aleppo in order to eliminate the last of the syrian rebels who are really holding out against the assad regime. russia hasnt paid any attention to isis. theyre interested in keeping assad in power. so i when i was secretary of state advocated and i advocate today a nofly zone and safe zones. we need some leverage with the russians because they are not going to come to the negotiating table for a diplomatic resolution unless there is some leverage over them. and we have to work more closely with our partners and allies on the ground. but i want to emphasize that what is at stake here is the ambitions and the aggressiveness of russia. russia has decided that its all in in syria. and theyve also decided who they want to see become president of the united states too and its not me. ive stood up to russia. ive taken on putin and others and i would do that as president. i think wherever we can cooperate with russia thats fine. and i did as secretary of state. thats how we got a treaty reducing nuclear weapons. its how we got the sanctions on iran that put a lid on the iranian nuclear program without firing a single shot. so i would go to the negotiating table with more leverage than we have now. but i do support the effort to investigate for crimes war crimes committed by the syrians and the russians and try to hold them accountable.  no i wasnt. i was gone. i hate to interrupt you but at some point...  at some point we need to do some factchecking here.  i would not use american ground forces in syria. i think that would be a very serious mistake. i dont think american troops should be holding territory which is what they would have to do as an occupying force. i dont think that is a smart strategy. i do think the use of special forces which were using the use of enablers and trainers in iraq which has had some positive effects are very much in our interests and so i do support what is happening but let me just...  well martha i hope that by the time i  if im fortunate...  i hope by the time i am president that we will have pushed isis out of iraq. i do think that there is a good chance that we can take mosul. and you know donald says he knows more about isis than the generals. no he doesnt. there are a lot of very important planning going on and some of it is to signal to the sunnis in the area as well as kurdish peshmerga fighters that we all need to be in this. and that takes a lot of planning and preparation. i would go after baghdadi. i would specifically target baghdadi because i think our targeting of al qaida leaders  and i was involved in a lot of those operations highly classified ones  made a difference. so i think that could help. i would also consider arming the kurds. the kurds have been our best partners in syria as well as iraq. and i know theres a lot of concern about that in some circles but i think they should have the equipment they need so that kurdish and arab fighters on the ground are the principal way that we take raqqa after pushing isis out of iraq.  well 67 percent of the people voted to reelect me when i ran for my second term and i was very proud and very humbled by that. mr. carter i have tried my entire life to do what i can to support children and families. you know right out of law school i went to work for the childrens defense fund. and donald talks a lot about you know the 30 years ive been in public service. im proud of that. you know i started off as a young lawyer working against discrimination against africanamerican children in schools and in the criminal justice system. i worked to make sure that kids with disabilities could get a public education something that i care very much about. i have worked with latinos  one of my first jobs in politics was down in south texas registering latino citizens to be able to vote. so i have a deep devotion to use your absolutely correct word to making sure that an every american feels like he or she has a place in our country. and i think when you look at the letters that i get a lot of people are worried that maybe they wouldnt have a place in donald trumps america. they write me and one woman wrote me about her son felix. she adopted him from ethiopia when he was a toddler. hes .0 years old now. this is the only one country hes ever known. and he listens to donald on tv and he said to his mother one day will he send me back to ethiopia if he gets elected. you know children listen to what is being said. to go back to the very very first question. and theres a lot of fear  in fact teachers and parents are calling it the trump effect. bullying is up. a lot of people are feeling you know uneasy. a lot of kids are expressing their concerns. so first and foremost i will do everything i can to reach out to everybody.  democrats republicans independents people across our country. if you dont vote for me i still want to be your president.  i want to be the best president i can be for every american. well within hours i said that i was sorry about the way i talked about that because my argument is not with his supporters. its with him and with the hateful and divisive campaign that he has run and the inciting of violence at his rallies and the very brutal kinds of comments about not just women but all americans all kinds of americans. and what he has said about africanamericans and latinos about muslims about pows about immigrants about people with disabilities hes never apologized for. and so i do think that a lot of the tone and tenor that he has said  im proud of the campaign that bernie sanders and i ran. we ran a campaign based on issues not insults. and he is supporting me .00 percent.  because we talked about what we wanted to do. we might have had some differences and we had a lot of debates...  no. well its not only my opinion. its the opinion of many others national security experts republicans former republican members of congress. but its in part because those of us who have had the great privilege of seeing this job up close and know how difficult it is and its not just because i watched my husband take a 300 billion deficit and turn it into a 200 billion surplus and 23 million new jobs were created and incomes went up for everybody. everybody. africanamerican incomes went up 33 percent. and its not just because i worked with george w. bush after 9.. and i was very proud that when i told him what the city needed what we needed to recover he said youve got it and he never wavered. he stuck with me. and i have worked and i admire president obama. he inherited the worst financial crisis since the great depression. that was a terrible time for our country.  nine million people lost their jobs. five million homes were lost. and .3 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. we are back on the right track. he would send us back into recession with his tax plans that benefit the wealthiest of americans. thank you. well youre right. this is one of the most important issues in this election. i want to appoint supreme court justices who understand the way the world really works who have reallife experience who have not just been in a big law firm and maybe clerked for a judge and then gotten on the bench but you know maybe they tried some more cases they actually understand what people are up against. because i think the current court has gone in the wrong direction. and so i would want to see the supreme court reverse citizens united and get dark unaccountable money out of our politics. donald doesnt agree with that. i would like the supreme court to understand that voting rights are still a big problem in many parts of our country that we dont always do everything we can to make it possible for people of color and older people and young people to be able to exercise their franchise. i want a supreme court that will stick with roe v. wade and a womans right to choose and i want a supreme court that will stick with marriage equality. now donald has put forth the names of some people that he would consider. and among the ones that he has suggested are people who would reverse roe v. wade and reverse marriage equality. i think that would be a terrible mistake and would take us backwards. i want a supreme court that doesnt always side with corporate interests. i want a supreme court that understands because youre wealthy and you can give more money to something doesnt mean you have any more rights or should have any more rights than anybody else. so i have very clear views about what i want to see to kind of change the balance on the supreme court. and i regret deeply that the senate has not done its job and they have not permitted a vote on the person that president obama a highly qualified person theyve not given him a vote to be able to be have the full complement of nine supreme court justices. i think that was a dereliction of duty. i hope that they will see their way to doing it but if i am so fortunate enough as to be president i will immediately move to make sure that we fill that we have nine justices that get to work on behalf of our people.  well... the question was about the supreme court. and i just want to quickly say i respect the second amendment. but i believe there should be comprehensive background checks and we should close the gun show loophole and close the online loophole.  we have to save as many lives as we possibly can. and actually  well that was very interesting. first of all china is illegally dumping steel in the united states and donald trump is buying it to build his buildings putting steelworkers and american steel plants out of business. thats something that i fought against as a senator and that i would have a trade prosecutor to make sure that we dont get taken advantage of by china on steel or anything else. you know because it sounds like youre in the business or youre aware of people in the business  you know that we are now for the first time ever energyindependent. we are not dependent upon the middle east. but the middle east still controls a lot of the prices. so the price of oil has been way down. and that has had a damaging effect on a lot of the oil companies right. we are however producing a lot of natural gas which serves as a bridge to more renewable fuels. and i think thats an important transition. weve got to remain energyindependent. it gives us much more power and freedom than to be worried about what goes on in the middle east. we have enough worries over there without having to worry about that. so i have a comprehensive energy policy but it really does include fighting climate change because i think that is a serious problem. and i support moving toward more clean renewable energy as quickly as we can because i think we can be the 2.st century clean energy superpower and create millions of new jobs and businesses. but i also want to be sure that we dont leave people behind. thats why im the only candidate from the very beginning of this campaign who had a plan to help us revitalize coal country because those coal miners and their fathers and their grandfathers they dug that coal out. a lot of them lost their lives. they were injured but they turned the lights on and they powered their factories. i dont want to walk away from them. so weve got to do something for them.  but the price of coal is down worldwide. so we have to look at this comprehensively. and thats exactly what i have proposed. i hope you will go to hillaryclinton.com and look at my entire policy. well i certainly will because i think thats a very fair and important question. look i respect his children. his children are incredibly able and devoted and i think that says a lot about donald. i dont agree with nearly anything else he says or does but i do respect that. and i think that is something that as a mother and a grandmother is very important to me. so i believe that this election has become in part so  so conflictoriented so intense because theres a lot at stake. this is not an ordinary time and this is not an ordinary election. we are going to be choosing a president who will set policy for not just four or eight years but because of some of the important decisions we have to make here at home and around the world from the supreme court to energy and so much else and so there is a lot at stake. its one of the most consequential elections that weve had. and thats why ive tried to put forth specific policies and plans trying to get it off of the personal and put it on to what it is i want to do as president. and thats why i hope people will check on that for themselves so that they can see that yes ive spent 30 years actually maybe a little more working to help kids and families. and i want to take all that experience to the white house and do that every single day.  thank you very much chris. and thanks to unlv for hosting us. you know i think when we talk about the supreme court it really raises the central issue in this election namely what kind of country are we going to be. what kind of opportunities will we provide for our citizens. what kind of rights will americans have. and i feel strongly that the supreme court needs to stand on the side of the american people not on the side of the powerful corporations and the wealthy. for me that means that we need a supreme court that will stand up on behalf of womens rights on behalf of the rights of the lgbt community that will stand up and say no to citizens united a decision that has undermined the election system in our country because of the way it permits dark unaccountable money to come into our electoral system. i have major disagreements with my opponent about these issues and others that will be before the supreme court. but i feel that at this point in our countrys history it is important that we not reverse marriage equality that we not reverse roe v. wade that we stand up against citizens united we stand up for the rights of people in the workplace that we stand up and basically say the supreme court should represent all of us. thats how i see the court and the kind of people that i would be looking to nominate to the court would be in the great tradition of standing up to the powerful standing up on behalf of our rights as americans. and i look forward to having that opportunity. i would hope that the senate would do its job and confirm the nominee that president obama has sent to them. thats the way the constitution fundamentally should operate. the president nominates and then the senate advises and consents or not but they go forward with the process.  well first of all i support the second amendment. i lived in arkansas for .8 wonderful years. i represented upstate new york. i understand and respect the tradition of gun ownership. it goes back to the founding of our country. but i also believe that there can be and must be reasonable regulation. because i support the second amendment doesnt mean that i want people who shouldnt have guns to be able to threaten you kill you or members of your family. and so when i think about what we need to do we have 33000 people a year who die from guns. i think we need comprehensive background checks need to close the online loophole close the gun show loophole. theres other matters that i think are sensible that are the kind of reforms that would make a difference that are not in any way conflicting with the second amendment. you mentioned the heller decision. and what i was saying that you referenced chris was that i disagreed with the way the court applied the second amendment in that case because what the district of columbia was trying to do was to protect toddlers from guns and so they wanted people with guns to safely store them. and the court didnt accept that reasonable regulation but theyve accepted many others. so i see no conflict between saving peoples lives and defending the second amendment.  well i was upset because unfortunately dozens of toddlers injure themselves even kill people with guns because unfortunately not everyone who has loaded guns in their homes takes appropriate precautions. but theres no doubt that i respect the second amendment that i also believe theres an individual right to bear arms. that is not in conflict with sensible commonsense regulation. and you know look i understand that donalds been strongly supported by the nra. the gun lobbys on his side. theyre running millions of dollars of ads against me. and i regret that because what i would like to see is for people to come together and say of course were going to protect and defend the second amendment. but were going to do it in a way that tries to save some of these 33000 lives that we lose every year.  well i strongly support roe v. wade which guarantees a constitutional right to a woman to make the most intimate most difficult in many cases decisions about her health care that one can imagine. and in this case its not only about roe v. wade. it is about whats happening right now in america. so many states are putting very stringent regulations on women that block them from exercising that choice to the extent that they are defunding planned parenthood which of course provides all kinds of cancer screenings and other benefits for women in our country. donald has said hes in favor of defunding planned parenthood. he even supported shutting the government down to defund planned parenthood. i will defend planned parenthood. i will defend roe v. wade and i will defend womens rights to make their own health care decisions.  and we have come too far to have that turned back now. and indeed he said women should be punished that there should be some form of punishment for women who obtain abortions. and i could just not be more opposed to that kind of thinking.  because roe v. wade very clearly sets out that there can be regulations on abortion so long as the life and the health of the mother are taken into account. and when i voted as a senator i did not think that that was the case. the kinds of cases that fall at the end of pregnancy are often the most heartbreaking painful decisions for families to make. i have met with women who toward the end of their pregnancy get the worst news one could get that their health is in jeopardy if they continue to carry to term or that something terrible has happened or just been discovered about the pregnancy. i do not think the united states government should be stepping in and making those most personal of decisions. so you can regulate if you are doing so with the life and the health of the mother taken into account.  well that is not what happens in these cases. and using that kind of scare rhetoric is just terribly unfortunate. you should meet with some of the women that i have met with women i have known over the course of my life. this is one of the worst possible choices that any woman and her family has to make. and i do not believe the government should be making it. you know ive had the great honor of traveling across the world on behalf of our country. ive been to countries where governments either forced women to have abortions like they used to do in china or forced women to bear children like they used to do in romania. and i can tell you the government has no business in the decisions that women make with their families in accordance with their faith with medical advice. and i will stand up for that right.  well as he was talking i was thinking about a young girl i met here in las vegas carla who is very worried that her parents might be deported because she was born in this country but they were not. they work hard they do everything they can to give her a good life. and youre right. i dont want to rip families apart. i dont want to be sending parents away from children. i dont want to see the deportation force that donald has talked about in action in our country. we have .. million undocumented people. they have 4 million american citizen children .5 million people. he said as recently as a few weeks ago in phoenix that every undocumented person would be subject to deportation. now heres what that means. it means you would have to have a massive law enforcement presence where law enforcement officers would be going school to school home to home business to business rounding up people who are undocumented. and we would then have to put them on trains on buses to get them out of our country. i think that is an idea that is not in keeping with who we are as a nation. i think its an idea that would rip our country apart. i have been for border security for years. i voted for border security in the united states senate. and my comprehensive immigration reform plan of course includes border security. but i want to put our resources where i think theyre most needed getting rid of any violent person. anybody who should be deported we should deport them. when it comes to the wall that donald talks about building he went to mexico he had a meeting with the mexican president. didnt even raise it. he choked and then got into a twitter war because the mexican president said were not paying for that wall. so i think we are both a nation of immigrants and we are a nation of laws and that we can act accordingly. and thats why im introducing comprehensive immigration reform within the first .00 days with the path to citizenship.  i voted for border security and there are...  there are some limited places where that was appropriate. there also is necessarily going to be new technology and how best to deploy that. but it is clear when you look at what donald has been proposing he started his campaign bashing immigrants calling mexican immigrants rapists and criminals and drug dealers that he has a very different view about what we should do to deal with immigrants. now what i am also arguing is that bringing undocumented immigrants out from the shadows putting them into the formal economy will be good because then employers cant exploit them and undercut americans wages. and donald knows a lot about this. he used undocumented labor to build the trump tower. he underpaid undocumented workers and when they complained he basically said what a lot of employers do you complain ill get you deported. i want to get everybody out of the shadows get the economy working and not let employers like donald exploit undocumented workers which hurts them but also hurts american workers.  we will not have open borders. that is... that is a rank mischaracterization. we will have secure borders but well also have reform. and this used to be a bipartisan issue. ronald reagan was the last president...  ... to sign immigration reform and george w. bush supported it as well.  well if you went on to read the rest of the sentence i was talking about energy. you know we trade more energy with our neighbors than we trade with the rest of the world combined. and i do want us to have an electric grid an energy system that crosses borders. i think that would be a great benefit to us. but you are very clearly quoting from wikileaks. and whats really important about wikileaks is that the russian government has engaged in espionage against americans. they have hacked american websites american accounts of private people of institutions. then they have given that information to wikileaks for the purpose of putting it on the internet. this has come from the highest levels of the russian government clearly from putin himself in an effort as .7 of our intelligence agencies have confirmed to influence our election.  so i actually think the most important question of this evening chris is finally will donald trump admit and condemn that the russians are doing this and make it clear that he will not have the help of putin in in this election that he rejects russian espionage against americans which he actually encouraged in the past. those are the questions we need answered. weve never had anything like this happen in any of our elections before.  well thats because hed rather have a puppet as president of the united states.  and its pretty clear... its pretty clear you wont admit... ... that the russians have engaged in cyberattacks against the united states of america that you encouraged espionage against our people that you are willing to spout the putin line sign up for his wish list break up nato do whatever he wants to do and that you continue to get help from him because he has a very clear favorite in this race. so i think that this is such an unprecedented situation. weve never had a foreign government trying to interfere in our election. we have .7  .7 intelligence agencies civilian and military who have all concluded that these espionage attacks these cyberattacks come from the highest levels of the kremlin and they are designed to influence our election. i find that deeply disturbing.  and i think its time you take a stand... i am not quoting myself. i am quoting .7... ... .7 intelligence  do you doubt .7 military and civilian... ... agencies. well hed rather believe vladimir putin than the military and civilian intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect us. i find that just absolutelyé i  i find it ironic that hes raising nuclear weapons. this is a person who has been very cavalier even casual about the use of nuclear weapons. hes...  ... advocated more countries getting them japan korea even saudi arabia. he said well if we have them why dont we use them which i think is terrifying. but heres the deal. the bottom line on nuclear weapons is that when the president gives the order it must be followed. theres about four minutes between the order being given and the people responsible for launching nuclear weapons to do so. and thats why .0 people who have had that awesome responsibility have come out and in an unprecedented way said they would not trust donald trump with the nuclear codes or to have his finger on the nuclear button.  well im just quoting you when you were asked...  ... about a potential nuclear  nuclear competition in asia you said you know go ahead enjoy yourselves folks. that kind...  ... of language  well... the united states has kept the peace  the united states has kept the peace through our alliances. donald wants to tear up our alliances. i think it makes the world safer and frankly it makes the united states safer. i would work with our allies in asia in europe in the middle east and elsewhere. thats the only way were going to be able to keep the peace.  well i think when the middle class thrives america thrives. and so my plan is based on growing the economy giving middleclass families many more opportunities. i want us to have the biggest jobs program since world war ii jobs in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing. i think we can compete with highwage countries and i believe we should. new jobs and clean energy not only to fight climate change which is a serious problem but to create new opportunities and new businesses. i want us to do more to help small business. thats where two thirds of the new jobs are going to come from. i want us to raise the national minimum wage because people who live in poverty should not  who work fulltime should not still be in poverty. and i sure do want to make sure women get equal pay for the work we do. i feel strongly that we have to have an education system that starts with preschool and goes through college. thats why i want more technical education in high schools and in community colleges real apprenticeships to prepare young people for the jobs of the future. i want to make college debtfree and for families making less than .25000 you will not get a tuition bill from a public college or university if the plan that i worked on with bernie sanders is enacted. and were going to work hard to make sure that it is because we are going to go where the money is. most of the gains in the last years since the great recession have gone to the very top. so we are going to have the wealthy pay their fair share. were going to have corporations make a contribution greater than they are now to our country. that is a plan that has been analyzed by independent experts which said that it could produce .0 million new jobs. by contrast donalds plan has been analyzed to conclude it might lose 3.5 million jobs. why. because his whole plan is to cut taxes to give the biggest tax breaks ever to the wealthy and to corporations adding 20 trillion to our debt and causing the kind of dislocation that we have seen before because it truly will be trickledown economics on steroids. so the plan i have i think will actually produce greater opportunities. the plan he has will cost us jobs and possibly lead to another great recession.  well let me translate that if i can chris because...  ... the fact is hes going to advocate for the largest tax cuts weve ever seen three times more than the tax cuts under the bush administration. i have said repeatedly throughout this campaign i will not raise taxes on anyone making 250000 or less. i also will not add a penny to the debt. i have costed out what im going to do. he will through his massive tax cuts add 20 trillion to the debt. well he mentioned the debt. we know how to get control of the debt. when my husband was president we went from a 300 billion deficit to a 200 billion surplus and we were actually on the path to eliminating the national debt. when president obama came into office he inherited the worst economic disaster since the great depression. he has cut the deficit by twothirds. so yes one of the ways you go after the debt one of the ways you create jobs is by investing in people. so i do have investments investments in new jobs investments in education skill training and the opportunities for people to get ahead and stay ahead. thats the kind of approach that will work.  cutting taxes on the wealthy weve tried that. it has not worked the way that it has been promised.  well its a combination chris. and let me say that when you inherit the level of economic catastrophe that president obama inherited it was a real touchandgo situation. i was in the senate before i became secretary of state. ive never seen people as physically distraught as the bush administration team was because of what was happening to the economy. i personally believe that the steps that president obama took saved the economy. he doesnt get the credit he deserves for taking some very hard positions. but it was a terrible recession. so now weve dug ourselves out of it were standing but were not yet running. so what i am proposing is that we invest from the middle out and the ground up not the top down. that is not going to work. thats why what i have put forward doesnt add a penny to the debt but it is the kind of approach that will enable more people to take those new jobs higherpaying jobs. were beginning to see some increase in incomes and we certainly have had a long string of increasing jobs. weve got to do more to get the whole economy moving and thats what i believe i will be able to do.  well first let me say number one when i saw the final agreement for tpp i said i was against it. it didnt meet my test. ive had the same test. does it create jobs raise incomes and further our national security. im against it now. ill be against it after the election. ill be against it when im president. theres only one of us on this stage whos actually shipped jobs to mexico because thats donald. hes shipped jobs to .2 countries including mexico. but he mentioned china. and you know one of the biggest problems we have with china is the illegal dumping of steel and aluminum into our markets. i have fought against that as a senator. ive stood up against it as secretary of state. donald has bought chinese steel and aluminum. in fact the trump hotel right here in las vegas was made with chinese steel. so he goes around with crocodile tears about how terrible it is but he has given jobs to chinese steelworkers not american steelworkers.  thats the kind of approach that is just not going to work. were going to pull the country together. were going to have trade agreements that we enforce. thats why im going to have a trade prosecutor for the first time in history. and were going to enforce those agreements and were going to look for businesses to help us by buying american products.  no i voted.  well first of all what he just said about the state department is not only untrue its been debunked numerous times.  but i think its really an important issue. he raised the 30 years of experience so let me just talk briefly about that. you know back in the .970s i worked for the childrens defense fund. and i was taking on discrimination against africanamerican kids in schools. he was getting sued by the justice department for racial discrimination in his apartment buildings. in the .980s i was working to reform the schools in arkansas. he was borrowing .4 million from his father to start his businesses. in the .990s i went to beijing and i said womens rights are human rights. he insulted a former miss universe alicia machado called her an eating machine.  and on the day when i was in the situation room monitoring the raid that brought osama bin laden to justice he was hosting the celebrity apprentice. so im happy to compare my 30 years of experience what ive done for this country trying to help in every way i could especially kids and families get ahead and stay ahead with your 30 years and ill let the american people make that decision.  well... at the last debate we heard donald talking about what he did to women. and after that a number of women have come forward saying thats exactly what he did to them. now what was his response. well he held a number of big rallies where he said that he could not possibly have done those things to those women because they were not attractive enough for them to be assaulted.  in fact he went on to say...  he went on to say look at her. i dont think so. about another woman he said that wouldnt be my first choice. he attacked the woman reporter writing the story called her disgusting as he has called a number of women during this campaign. donald thinks belittling women makes him bigger. he goes after their dignity their selfworth and i dont think there is a woman anywhere who doesnt know what that feels like. so we now know what donald thinks and what he says and how he acts toward women. thats who donald is. i think its really up to all of us to demonstrate who we are and who our country is and to stand up and be very clear about what we expect from our next president how we want to bring our country together where we dont want to have the kind of pitting of people one against the other where instead we celebrate our diversity we lift people up and we make our country even greater. america is great because america is good. and it really is up to all of us to make that true now and in the future and particularly for our children and our grandchildren.  well every time donald is pushed on something which is obviously uncomfortable like what these women are saying he immediately goes to denying responsibility. and its not just about women. he never apologizes or says hes sorry for anything. so we know what he has said and what hes done to women. but he also went after a disabled reporter mocked and mimicked him on national television.  he went after mr. and mrs. khan the parents of a young man who died serving our country a gold star family because of their religion. he went after john mccain a prisoner of war said he prefers people who arent captured. he went after a federal judge born in indiana but who donald said couldnt be trusted to try the fraud and racketeering case against trump university because his parents were mexican. so its not one thing. this is a pattern a pattern of divisiveness of a very dark and in many ways dangerous vision of our country where he incites violence where he applauds people who are pushing and pulling and punching at his rallies. that is not who america is. and i hope that as we move in the last weeks of this campaign more and more people will understand whats at stake in this election. it really does come down to what kind of country we are going to have.  well everything i did as secretary of state was in furtherance of our countrys interests and our values. the state department has said that. i think thats been proven. but i am happy in fact im thrilled to talk about the clinton foundation because it is a worldrenowned charity and i am so proud of the work that it does. you know i could talk for the rest of the debate  i know i dont have the time to do that. but just briefly the clinton foundation made it possible for .. million people around the world with hivaids to afford treatment and thats about half all the people in the world who are getting treatment. in partnership with the american health association...  ... we have made environments in schools healthier for kids including healthier lunches...  well it is an open discussion. and you...  well but there is no  but there is no evidence  but there isé there is a lot of evidence about the very good work... ... and the high rankingsé well very quickly we at the clinton foundation spend 90 percent  90 percent of all the money that is donated on behalf of programs of people around the world and in our own country. im very proud of that. we have the highest rating from the watchdogs that follow foundations. and id be happy to compare what we do with the trump foundation which took money from other people and bought a six foot portrait of donald. i mean who does that. it just was astonishing. but when it comes to haiti haiti is the poorest country in our hemisphere. the earthquake and the hurricanes it has devastated haiti. bill and i have been involved in trying to help haiti for many years. the clinton foundation raised 30 million to help haiti after the catastrophic earthquake and all of the terrible problems the people there had. we have done things to help small businesses agriculture and so much else. and were going to keep working to help haiti...  ... because its an important part of the american experience. but of course theres no way we can know whether any of that is true because he hasnt released his tax returns. he is the first candidate ever to run for president in the last 40plus years who has not released his tax returns so everything he says about charity or anything else we cant prove it. you can look at our tax returns. weve got them all out there. but what is really troubling is that we learned in the last debate he has not paid a penny in federal income tax. and we were talking about immigrants a few minutes ago chris. you know half of all immigrants  undocumented immigrants in our country  actually pay federal income tax. so we have undocumented immigrants in america who are paying more federal income tax than a billionaire. i find that just astonishing.  well you know...  made with chinese steel. well chris let me respond to that because thats horrifying. you know every time donald thinks things are not going in his direction he claims whatever it is is rigged against him. the fbi conducted a yearlong investigation into my emails. they concluded there was no case he said the fbi was rigged. he lost the iowa caucus. he lost the wisconsin primary. he said the republican primary was rigged against him. then trump university gets sued for fraud and racketeering he claims the court system and the federal judge is rigged against him. there was even a time when he didnt get an emmy for his tv program three years in a row and he started tweeting that the emmys were rigged against him.  this is  this is a mindset. this is how donald thinks. and its funny but its also really troubling.  so that is not the way our democracy works. weve been around for 240 years. weve had free and fair elections. weve accepted the outcomes when we may not have liked them. and that is what must be expected of anyone standing on a debate stage during a general election. you know president obama said the other day when youre whining before the game is even finished... ... it just shows youre not up to doing the job. and lets  you know lets be clear about what he is saying and what that means. he is denigrating  hes talking down our democracy. and i for one am appalled that somebody who is the nominee of one of our two major parties would take that kind of position.  well i am encouraged that there is an effort led by the iraqi army supported by kurdish forces and also given the help and advice from the number of special forces and other americans on the ground. but i will not support putting american soldiers into iraq as an occupying force. i dont think that is in our interest and i dont think that would be smart to do. in fact chris i think that would be a big red flag waving for isis to reconstitute itself. the goal here is to take back mosul. its going to be a hard fight. ive got no illusions about that. and then continue to press into syria to begin to take back and move on raqqa which is the isis headquarters. i am hopeful that the hard work that american military advisers have done will pay off and that we will see a real  a really successful military operation. but we know weve got lots of work to do. syria will remain a hotbed of terrorism as long as the civil war aided and abetted by the iranians and the russians continue. so i have said look we need to keep our eye on isis. thats why i want to have an intelligence surge that protects us here at home why we have to go after them from the air on the ground online why we have to make sure here at home we dont let terrorists buy weapons. if youre too dangerous to fly youre too dangerous to buy a gun. and im going to continue to push for a nofly zone and safe havens within syria not only to help protect the syrians and prevent the constant outflow of refugees but to frankly gain some leverage on both the syrian government and the russians so that perhaps we can have the kind of serious negotiation necessary to bring the conflict to an end and go forward on a political track.  well you know once again donald is implying that he didnt support the invasion of iraq. i said it was a mistake. ive said that years ago. he has consistently denied what is...  ... a very clear fact that... ... before the invasion he supported it. and you know i just want everybody to go google it. google donald trump iraq. and you will see the dozens of sources which verify that he was for the invasion of iraq.  and you can actually hear the audio of him saying that. now why does that matter. well it matters because he has not told the truth about that position. i guess he believes it makes him look better now to contrast with me because i did vote for it. but whats really important here is to understand all the interplay. mosul is a sunni city. mosul is on the border of syria. and yes we do need to go after baghdadi and  just like we went after bin laden while you were doing celebrity apprentice and we brought him to justice. we need to go after the leadership. but we need to get rid of them get rid of their fighters. there are an estimated several thousand fighters in mosul. theyve been digging underground. theyve been prepared to defend. its going to be tough fighting. but i think we can take back mosul and then we can move on into syria and take back raqqa. this is what we have to do. im just amazed that he seems to think that the iraqi government and our allies and everybody else launched the attack on mosul to help me in this election but thats how donald thinks. you know he always is looking for some conspiracy.  he has all the conspiracy theoriesé this conspiracy theory which hes been spewing out for quite some time.  he saysé ... unfit and he proves it every time he talks.  well you should ask bernie sanders who hes supporting for president. and he has said...  ... as he has campaigned for me around the country you are the most dangerous person to run for president in the modern history of america. i think hes right.  well chris first of all i think a nofly zone could save lives and could hasten the end of the conflict. im well aware of the really legitimate concerns that you have expressed from both the president and the general. this would not be done just on the first day. this would take a lot of negotiation. and it would also take making it clear to the russians and the syrians that our purpose here was to provide safe zones on the ground. weve had millions of people leave syria and those millions of people inside syria who have been dislocated. so i think we could strike a deal and make it very clear to the russians and the syrians that this was something that we believe was in the best interests of the people on the ground in syria it would help us with our fight against isis. but i want to respond to what donald said about refugees. hes made these claims repeatedly. i am not going to let anyone into this country who is not vetted who we do not have confidence in. but i am not going to slam the door on women and children. that picture of that little 4yearold boy in aleppo with the blood coming down his face while he sat in an ambulance is haunting. and so we are going to do very careful thorough vetting. that does not solve our internal challenges with isis and our need to stop radicalization to work with american muslim communities who are on the front lines to identify and prevent attacks. in fact the killer of the dozens of people at the nightclub in orlando the pulse nightclub was born in queens the same place donald was born. so lets be clear about what the threat is and how we are best going to be able to meet it. and yes some of that threat emanates from over in syria and iraq and weve got to keep fighting and i will defeat isis and some of it is we have to up our game and be much smarter here at home.  well first when i hear donald talk like that and know that his slogan is make america great again i wonder when he thought america was great. and before he rushes and says you know before you and president obama were there i think its important to recognize that he has been criticizing our government for decades. you know back in .987 he took out a .00000 ad in the new york times during the time when president reagan was president and basically said exactly what he just said now that we were the laughingstock of the world. he was criticizing president reagan. this is the way donald thinks about himself puts himself into you know the middle and says you know i alone can fix it as he said on the convention stage. but if you look at the debt which is the issue you asked about chris i pay for everything im proposing. i do not add a penny to the national debt. i take that very seriously because i do think its one of the issues weve got to come to grips with. so when i talk about how were going to pay for education how were going to invest in infrastructure how were going to get the cost of prescription drugs down and a lot of the other issues that people talk to me about all the time ive made it very clear we are going where the money is. we are going to ask the wealthy and corporations to pay their fair share. and there is no evidence whatsoever that that will slow down or diminish our growth. in fact i think just the opposite. well have what economists call middleout growth. weve got to get back to rebuilding the middle class the families of america. thats where growth will come from. thats why i want to invest in you. i want to invest in your family. and i think thats the smartest way to grow the economy to make the economy fairer. and we just have a big disagreement about this. it may be because of our experiences. you know he started off with his dad as a millionaire...  i started off with  my dad was a smallbusiness man. and i think it  you know its a difference that affects how we see the world and what we want to do with the economy.  well chris i am on record as saying that we need to put more money into the social security trust fund. thats part of my commitment to raise taxes on the wealthy. my social security payroll contribution will go up as will donalds assuming he cant figure out how to get out of it. but what we want to do is to replenish the social security trust fund...  ... by making sure that we have sufficient resources and that will come from either raising the cap andor finding other ways to get more money into it. i will not cut benefits. i want to enhance benefits for lowincome workers and for women who have been disadvantaged by the current social security system. but what donald is proposing with these massive tax cuts will result in a 20 trillion additional national debt. that will have dire consequences for social security and medicare. and ill say something about the affordable care act which he wants to repeal. the affordable care act extended the solvency of the medicare trust fund. so if repeals it our medicare problem gets worse. what we need to do is go after...  ... the longterm health care drivers. weve got to get costs down increase value emphasize wellness. i have a plan for doing that. and i think that we will be able to get entitlement spending under control by with more resources and harder decisions.  well i would like to say to everyone watching tonight that im reaching out to all americans  democrats republicans and independents  because we need everybody to help make our country what it should be to grow the economy to make it fairer to make it work for everyone. we need your talents your skills your commitments your energy your ambition. you know ive been privileged to see the presidency up close. and i know the awesome responsibility of protecting our country and the incredible opportunity of working to try to make life better for all of you. i have made the cause of children and families really my lifes work. thats what my mission will be in the presidency. i will stand up for families against powerful interests against corporations. i will do everything that i can to make sure that you have good jobs with rising incomes that your kids have good educations from preschool through college. i hope you will give me a chance to serve as your president.  