thank you lester. our jobs are fleeing the country. theyre going to mexico. theyre going to many other countries. you look at what china is doing to our country in terms of making our product. theyre devaluing their currency and theres nobody in our government to fight them. and we have a very good fight. and we have a winning fight. because theyre using our country as a piggy bank to rebuild china and many other countries are doing the same thing. so were losing our good jobs so many of them. when you look at whats happening in mexico a friend of mine who builds plants said its the eighth wonder of the world. theyre building some of the biggest plants anywhere in the world some of the most sophisticated some of the best plants. with the united states as he said not so much. so ford is leaving. you see that their small car division leaving. thousands of jobs leaving michigan leaving ohio. theyre all leaving. and we cant allow it to happen anymore. as far as child care is concerned and so many other things i think hillary and i agree on that. we probably disagree a little bit as to numbers and amounts and what were going to do but perhaps well be talking about that later. but we have to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. we have to stop our companies from leaving the united states and with it firing all of their people. all you have to do is take a look at carrier air conditioning in indianapolis. they left  fired .400 people. theyre going to mexico. so many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this. we cannot let it happen. under my plan ill be reducing taxes tremendously from 35 percent to .5 percent for companies small and big businesses. thats going to be a job creator like we havent seen since ronald reagan. its going to be a beautiful thing to watch. companies will come. they will build. they will expand. new companies will start. and i look very very much forward to doing it. we have to renegotiate our trade deals and we have to stop these countries from stealing our companies and our jobs. well for one thing  and before we start on that  my father gave me a very small loan in .975 and i built it into a company thats worth many many billions of dollars with some of the greatest assets in the world and i say that only because thats the kind of thinking that our country needs. our countrys in deep trouble. we dont know what were doing when it comes to devaluations and all of these countries all over the world especially china. theyre the best the best ever at it. what theyre doing to us is a very very sad thing. so we have to do that. we have to renegotiate our trade deals. and lester theyre taking our jobs theyre giving incentives theyre doing things that frankly we dont do. let me give you the example of mexico. they have a vat tax. were on a different system. when we sell into mexico theres a tax. when they sell in  automatic .6 percent approximately. when they sell into us theres no tax. its a defective agreement. its been defective for a long time many years but the politicians havent done anything about it. now in all fairness to secretary clinton  yes is that ok. good. i want you to be very happy. its very important to me. but in all fairness to secretary clinton when she started talking about this it was really very recently. shes been doing this for 30 years. and why hasnt she made the agreements better. the nafta agreement is defective. just because of the tax and many other reasons but just because of the fact... secretary clinton and others politicians should have been doing this for years not right now because of the fact that weve created a movement. they should have been doing this for years. whats happened to our jobs and our country and our economy generally is  look we owe 20 trillion. we cannot do it any longer lester. well the first thing you do is dont let the jobs leave. the companies are leaving. i could name i mean there are thousands of them. theyre leaving and theyre leaving in bigger numbers than ever. and what you do is you say fine you want to go to mexico or some other country good luck. we wish you a lot of luck. but if you think youre going to make your air conditioners or your cars or your cookies or whatever you make and bring them into our country without a tax youre wrong. and once you say youre going to have to tax them coming in and our politicians never do this because they have special interests and the special interests want those companies to leave because in many cases they own the companies. so what im saying is we can stop them from leaving. we have to stop them from leaving. and thats a big big factor. thats called business by the way. i did not. i did not. i do not say that. i do not say that. she talks about solar panels. we invested in a solar company our country. that was a disaster. they lost plenty of money on that one. now look im a great believer in all forms of energy but were putting a lot of people out of work. our energy policies are a disaster. our country is losing so much in terms of energy in terms of paying off our debt. you cant do what youre looking to do with 20 trillion in debt. the obama administration from the time theyve come in is over 230 years worth of debt and hes topped it. hes doubled it in a course of almost eight years sevenandahalf years to be semi exact. so i will tell you this. we have to do a much better job at keeping our jobs. and we have to do a much better job at giving companies incentives to build new companies or to expand because theyre not doing it. and all you have to do is look at michigan and look at ohio and look at all of these places where so many of their jobs and their companies are just leaving theyre gone. and hillary id just ask you this. youve been doing this for 30 years. why are you just thinking about these solutions right now. for 30 years youve been doing it and now youre just starting to think of solutions. i will bring  excuse me. i will bring back jobs. you cant bring back jobs. yeah for 30 years. well he approved nafta... he approved nafta which is the single worst trade deal ever approved in this country. but you havent done it in 30 years or 26 years or any number you want to... you havent done it. you havent done it. excuse me. your husband signed nafta which was one of the worst things that ever happened to the manufacturing industry. you go to new england you go to ohio pennsylvania you go anywhere you want secretary clinton and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30 40 sometimes 50 percent. nafta is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere but certainly ever signed in this country. and now you want to approve transpacific partnership. you were totally in favor of it. then you heard what i was saying how bad it is and you said i cant win that debate. but you know that if you did win you would approve that and that will be almost as bad as nafta. nothing will ever top nafta. you called it the gold standard. you called it the gold standard of trade deals. you said its the finest deal youve ever seen. and then you heard what i said about it and all of a sudden you were against it. not. so is it president obamas fault. is it president obamas fault. secretary is it president obamas fault. because hes pushing it. but you have no plan. secretary you have no plan. thats about all youve... you are going to approve one of the biggest tax cuts in history. you are going to approve one of the biggest tax increases in history. you are going to drive business out. your regulations are a disaster and youre going to increase regulations all over the place. and by the way my tax cut is the biggest since ronald reagan. im very proud of it. it will create tremendous numbers of new jobs. but regulations you are going to regulate these businesses out of existence. when i go around  lester i tell you this ive been all over. and when i go around despite the tax cut the thing  the things that business as in people like the most is the fact that im cutting regulation. you have regulations on top of regulations and new companies cannot form and old companies are going out of business. and you want to increase the regulations and make them even worse. im going to cut regulations. im going to cut taxes big league and youre going to raise taxes big league end of story. facts. and take a look at mine also and youll see. well could i just finish  i think i... i think i should  you go to her website and you take a look at her website. shes going to raise taxes ..3 trillion. and look at her website. you know what. its no difference than this. shes telling us how to fight isis. just go to her website. she tells you how to fight isis on her website. i dont think general douglas macarthur would like that too much. no no youre telling the enemy everything you want to do. see youre telling the enemy everything you want to do. no wonder youve been fighting  no wonder youve been fighting isis your entire adult life. well im really calling for major jobs because the wealthy are going create tremendous jobs. theyre going to expand their companies. theyre going to do a tremendous job. im getting rid of the carried interest provision. and if you really look its not a tax  its really not a great thing for the wealthy. its a great thing for the middle class. its a great thing for companies to expand. and when these people are going to put billions and billions of dollars into companies and when theyre going to bring 2.5 trillion back from overseas where they cant bring the money back because politicians like secretary clinton wont allow them to bring the money back because the taxes are so onerous and the bureaucratic red tape so what  is so bad. so what theyre doing is theyre leaving our country and theyre believe it or not leaving because taxes are too high and because some of them have lots of money outside of our country. and instead of bringing it back and putting the money to work because they cant work out a deal to  and everybody agrees it should be brought back. instead of that theyre leaving our country to get their money because they cant bring their money back into our country because of bureaucratic red tape because they cant get together. because we have  we have a president that cant sit them around a table and get them to approve something. and heres the thing. republicans and democrats agree that this should be done 2.5 trillion. i happen to think its double that. its probably 5 trillion that we cant bring into our country lester. and with a little leadership youd get it in here very quickly and it could be put to use on the inner cities and lots of other things and it would be beautiful. but we have no leadership. and honestly that starts with secretary clinton. why not. theres nothing crazy about not letting our companies bring their money back into their country. yes. then you didnt read it. who gave it that name. the first ive  who gave it that name. how much. how much for my family. lester how much. typical politician. all talk no action. sounds good doesnt work. never going to happen. our country is suffering because people like secretary clinton have made such bad decisions in terms of our jobs and in terms of whats going on. now look we have the worst revival of an economy since the great depression. and believe me were in a bubble right now. and the only thing that looks good is the stock market but if you raise interest rates even a little bit thats going to come crashing down. we are in a big fat ugly bubble. and we better be awfully careful. and we have a fed thats doing political things. this janet yellen of the fed. the fed is doing political  by keeping the interest rates at this level. and believe me the day obama goes off and he leaves and goes out to the golf course for the rest of his life to play golf when they raise interest rates youre going to see some very bad things happen because the fed is not doing their job. the fed is being more political than secretary clinton. i dont mind releasing  im under a routine audit. and itll be released. and  as soon as the audits finished it will be released. but you will learn more about donald trump by going down to the federal elections where i filed a .04page essentially financial statement of sorts the forms that they have. it shows income  in fact the income  i just looked today  the income is filed at 694 million for this past year 694 million. if you would have told me i was going to make that .5 or 20 years ago i would have been very surprised. but thats the kind of thinking that our country needs. when we have a country thats doing so badly thats being ripped off by every single country in the world its the kind of thinking that our country needs because everybody  lester we have a trade deficit with all of the countries that we do business with of almost 800 billion a year. you know what that is. that means whos negotiating these trade deals. we have people that are political hacks negotiating our trade deals. excuse me. well i told you i will release them as soon as the audit. look ive been under audit almost for .5 years. i know a lot of wealthy people that have never been audited. i said do you get audited. i get audited almost every year. and in a way i should be complaining. im not even complaining. i dont mind it. its almost become a way of life. i get audited by the irs. but other people dont. i will say this. we have a situation in this country that has to be taken care of. i will release my tax returns  against my lawyers wishes  when she releases her 33000 emails that have been deleted. as soon as she releases them i will release. i will release my tax returns. and thats against  my lawyers they say dont do it. i will tell you this. no  in fact watching shows theyre reading the papers. almost every lawyer says you dont release your returns until the audits complete. when the audits complete ill do it. but i would go against them if she releases her emails. its not negotiable no. let her release the emails. why did she delete 33000... that makes me smart. that was more than a mistake. that was done purposely. ok. that was not a mistake. that was done purposely. when you have your staff taking the fifth amendment taking the fifth so theyre not prosecuted when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the fifth i think its disgraceful. and believe me this country thinks its  really thinks its disgraceful also. as far as my tax returns you dont learn that much from tax returns. that i can tell you. you learn a lot from financial disclosure. and you should go down and take a look at that. the other thing im extremely underleveraged. the report that said 650  which by the way a lot of friends of mine that know my business say boy thats really not a lot of money. its not a lot of money relative to what i had. the buildings that were in question they said in the same report which was  actually it wasnt even a bad story to be honest with you but the buildings are worth 3.9 billion. and the 650 isnt even on that. but its not 650. its much less than that. but i could give you a list of banks i would  if that would help you i would give you a list of banks. these are very fine institutions very fine banks. i could do that very quickly. i am very underleveraged. i have a great company. i have a tremendous income. and the reason i say that is not in a braggadocios way. its because its about time that this country had somebody running it that has an idea about money. when we have 20 trillion in debt and our countrys a mess you know its one thing to have 20 trillion in debt and our roads are good and our bridges are good and everythings in great shape our airports. our airports are like from a third world country. you land at laguardia you land at kennedy you land at lax you land at newark and you come in from dubai and qatar and you see these incredible  you come in from china you see these incredible airports and you land  weve become a third world country. so the worst of all things has happened. we owe 20 trillion and were a mess. we havent even started. and weve spent 6 trillion in the middle east according to a report that i just saw. whether its 6 or 5 but it looks like its 6 6 trillion in the middle east we could have rebuilt our country twice. and its really a shame. and its politicians like secretary clinton that have caused this problem. our country has tremendous problems. were a debtor nation. were a serious debtor nation. and we have a country that needs new roads new tunnels new bridges new airports new schools new hospitals. and we dont have the money because its been squandered on so many of your ideas. it would be squandered too believe me. maybe he didnt do a good job and i was unsatisfied with his work... which our country should do too. wrong. wrong. so yeah i think  i do think its time. look its all words its all sound bites. i built an unbelievable company. some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world real estate assets anywhere in the world beyond the united states in europe lots of different places. its an unbelievable company. but on occasion four times we used certain laws that are there. and when secretary clinton talks about people that didnt get paid first of all they did get paid a lot but taken advantage of the laws of the nation. now if you want to change the laws youve been there a long time change the laws. but i take advantage of the laws of the nation because im running a company. my obligation right now is to do well for myself my family my employees for my companies. and thats what i do. but what she doesnt say is that tens of thousands of people that are unbelievably happy and that love me. ill give you an example. were just opening up on pennsylvania avenue right next to the white house so if i dont get there one way im going to get to pennsylvania avenue another. but were opening the old post office. under budget ahead of schedule saved tremendous money. im a year ahead of schedule. and thats what this country should be doing. we build roads and they cost two and three and four times what theyre supposed to cost. we buy products for our military and they come in at costs that are so far above what they were supposed to be because we dont have people that know what theyre doing. when we look at the budget the budget is bad to a large extent because we have people that have no idea as to what to do and how to buy. the trump international is way under budget and way ahead of schedule. and we should be able to do that for our country. well first of all secretary clinton doesnt want to use a couple of words and thats law and order. and we need law and order. if we dont have it were not going to have a country. and when i look at whats going on in charlotte a city i love a city where i have investments when i look at whats going on throughout various parts of our country whether its  i mean i can just keep naming them all day long  we need law and order in our country. i just got today the as you know the endorsement of the fraternal order of police we just  just came in. we have endorsements from i think almost every police group very  i mean a large percentage of them in the united states. we have a situation where we have our inner cities african americans hispanics are living in hell because its so dangerous. you walk down the street you get shot. in chicago theyve had thousands of shootings thousands since january .st. thousands of shootings. and im saying where is this. is this a wartorn country. what are we doing. and we have to stop the violence. we have to bring back law and order. in a place like chicago where thousands of people have been killed thousands over the last number of years in fact almost 4000 have been killed since barack obama became president over  almost 4000 people in chicago have been killed. we have to bring back law and order. now whether or not in a place like chicago you do stop and frisk which worked very well mayor giuliani is here worked very well in new york. it brought the crime rate way down. but you take the gun away from criminals that shouldnt be having it. we have gangs roaming the street. and in many cases theyre illegally here illegal immigrants. and they have guns. and they shoot people. and we have to be very strong. and we have to be very vigilant. we have to be  we have to know what were doing. right now our police in many cases are afraid to do anything. we have to protect our inner cities because africanamerican communities are being decimated by crime decimated. no youre wrong. it went before a judge who was a very againstpolice judge. it was taken away from her. and our mayor our new mayor refused to go forward with the case. they would have won an appeal. if you look at it throughout the country there are many places where its allowed. no the argument is that we have to take the guns away from these people that have them and they are bad people that shouldnt have them. these are felons. these are people that are bad people that shouldnt be  when you have 3000 shootings in chicago from january .st when you have 4000 people killed in chicago by guns from the beginning of the presidency of barack obama his hometown you have to have stopandfrisk. you need more police. you need a better community you know relation. you dont have good community relations in chicago. its terrible. i have property there. its terrible whats going on in chicago. but when you look  and chicagos not the only  you go to ferguson you go to so many different places. you need better relationships. i agree with secretary clinton on this. you need better relationships between the communities and the police because in some cases its not good. but you look at dallas where the relationships were really studied the relationships were really a beautiful thing and then five police officers were killed one night very violently. so theres some bad things going on. some really bad things. but we need  lester we need law and order. and we need law and order in the inner cities because the people that are most affected by whats happening are africanamerican and hispanic people. and its very unfair to them what our politicians are allowing to happen. ugh. id like to respond to that. first of all i agree and a lot of people even within my own party want to give certain rights to people on watch lists and no fly lists. i agree with you. when a person is on a watch list or a nofly list and i have the endorsement of the nra which im very proud of. these are very very good people and theyre protecting the second amendment. but i think we have to look very strongly at nofly lists and watch lists. and when people are on there even if they shouldnt be on there well help them well help them legally well help them get off. but i tend to agree with that quite strongly. i do want to bring up the fact that you were the one that brought up the words superpredator about young black youth. and thats a term that i think was a  its  its been horribly met as you know. i think youve apologized for it. but i think it was a terrible thing to say. and when it comes to stopandfrisk you know youre talking about takes guns away. well im talking about taking guns away from gangs and people that use them. and i dont think  i really dont think you disagree with me on this if you want to know the truth. i think maybe theres a political reason why you cant say it but i really dont believe  in new york city stopandfrisk we had 2200 murders and stopandfrisk brought it down to 500 murders. five hundred murders is a lot of murders. its hard to believe 500 is like supposed to be good. but we went from 2200 to 500. and it was continued on by mayor bloomberg. and it was terminated by current mayor. but stopand frisk had a tremendous impact on the safety of new york city. tremendous beyond belief. so when you say it has no impact it really did. it had a very very big impact. no youre wrong. youre wrong. murders are up. all right. you check it. id like to just respond if i might. id just like to respond. i will. look the africanamerican community has been let down by our politicians. they talk good around election time like right now and after the election they said see ya later ill see you in four years. the africanamerican community  because  look the community within the inner cities has been so badly treated. theyve been abused and used in order to get votes by democrat politicians because thats what it is. theyve controlled these communities for up to .00 years. and i will tell you you look at the inner cities  and i just left detroit and i just left philadelphia and i just  you know youve seen me ive been all over the place. you decided to stay home and thats ok. but i will tell you ive been all over. and ive met some of the greatest people ill ever meet within these communities. and they are very very upset with what their politicians have told them and what their politicians have done. ill tell you very  well just very simple to say. sidney blumenthal works for the campaign and close  very close friend of secretary clinton. and her campaign manager patti doyle went to  during the campaign her campaign against president obama fought very hard. and you can go look it up and you can check it out. and if you look at cnn this past week patti solis doyle was on wolf blitzer saying that this happened. blumenthal sent mcclatchy highly respected reporter at mcclatchy to kenya to find out about it. they were pressing it very hard. she failed to get the birth certificate. when i got involved i didnt fail. i got him to give the birth certificate. so im satisfied with it. and ill tell you why im satisfied with it. because i want to get on to defeating isis because i want to get on to creating jobs because i want to get on to having a strong border because i want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very important to the country. yeah. well nobody was pressing it nobody was caring much about it. i figured youd ask the question tonight of course. but nobody was caring much about it. but i was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. and i think i did a good job. secretary clinton also fought it. i mean you know  now everybody in mainstream is going to say oh thats not true. look its true. sidney blumenthal sent a reporter  you just have to take a look at cnn the last week the interview with your former campaign manager. and she was involved. but just like she cant bring back jobs she cant produce. well it was very  i say nothing. i say nothing because i was able to get him to produce it. he should have produced it a long time before. i say nothing. but let me just tell you. when you talk about healing i think that ive developed very very good relationships over the last little while with the africanamerican community. i think you can see that. and i feel that they really wanted me to come to that conclusion. and i think i did a great job and a great service not only for the country but even for the president in getting him to produce his birth certificate. i would love to respond. first of all i got to watch in preparing for this some of your debates against barack obama. you treated him with terrible disrespect. and i watched the way you talk now about how lovely everything is and how wonderful you are. it doesnt work that way. you were after him you were trying to  you even sent out or your campaign sent out pictures of him in a certain garb very famous pictures. i dont think you can deny that. but just last week your campaign manager said it was true. so when you tried to act holier than thou it really doesnt work. it really doesnt. now as far as the lawsuit yes when i was very young i went into my fathers company had a real estate company in brooklyn and queens and we along with many many other companies throughout the country  it was a federal lawsuit  were sued. we settled the suit with zero  with no admission of guilt. it was very easy to do. i notice you bring that up a lot. and you know i also notice the very nasty commercials that you do on me in so many different ways which i dont do on you. maybe im trying to save the money. but frankly i look  i look at that and i say isnt that amazing. because i settled that lawsuit with no admission of guilt but that was a lawsuit brought against many real estate firms and its just one of those things. ill go one step further. in palm beach florida tough community a brilliant community a wealthy community probably the wealthiest community there is in the world i opened a club and really got great credit for it. no discrimination against african americans against muslims against anybody. and its a tremendously successful club. and im so glad i did it. and i have been given great credit for what i did. and im very very proud of it. and thats the way i feel. that is the true way i feel. i do want to say that i was just endorsed  and more are coming next week  it will be over 200 admirals many of them here  admirals and generals endorsed me to lead this country. that just happened and many more are coming. and im very proud of it. in addition i was just endorsed by ice. theyve never endorsed anybody before on immigration. i was just endorsed by ice. i was just recently endorsed  .6500 border patrol agents. so when secretary clinton talks about this i mean ill take the admirals and ill take the generals any day over the political hacks that i see that have led our country so brilliantly over the last .0 years with their knowledge. ok. because look at the mess that were in. look at the mess that were in. as far as the cyber i agree to parts of what secretary clinton said. we should be better than anybody else and perhaps were not. i dont think anybody knows it was russia that broke into the dnc. shes saying russia russia russia but i dont  maybe it was. i mean it could be russia but it could also be china. it could also be lots of other people. it also could be somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds ok. you dont know who broke in to dnc. but what did we learn with dnc. we learned that bernie sanders was taken advantage of by your people by debbie wasserman schultz. look what happened to her. but bernie sanders was taken advantage of. thats what we learned. now whether that was russia whether that was china whether it was another country we dont know because the truth is under president obama weve lost control of things that we used to have control over. we came in with the internet we came up with the internet and i think secretary clinton and myself would agree very much when you look at what isis is doing with the internet theyre beating us at our own game. isis. so we have to get very very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. it is  it is a huge problem. i have a son. hes .0 years old. he has computers. he is so good with these computers its unbelievable. the security aspect of cyber is very very tough. and maybe its hardly doable. but i will say we are not doing the job we should be doing. but thats true throughout our whole governmental society. we have so many things that we have to do better lester and certainly cyber is one of them. well first i have to say one thing very important. secretary clinton is talking about taking out isis. we will take out isis. well president obama and secretary clinton created a vacuum the way they got out of iraq because they got out  what they shouldnt have been in but once they got in the way they got out was a disaster. and isis was formed. so she talks about taking them out. shes been doing it a long time. shes been trying to take them out for a long time. but they wouldnt have even been formed if they left some troops behind like .0000 or maybe something more than that. and then you wouldnt have had them. or as ive been saying for a long time and i think youll agree because i said it to you once had we taken the oil  and we should have taken the oil  isis would not have been able to form either because the oil was their primary source of income. and now they have the oil all over the place including the oil  a lot of the oil in libya which was another one of her disasters. wrong. wrong. wrong. well i have to respond. the secretary said very strongly about working with  weve been working with them for many years and we have the greatest mess anyones ever seen. you look at the middle east its a total mess. under your direction to a large extent. but you look at the middle east you started the iran deal thats another beauty where you have a country that was ready to fall i mean they were doing so badly. they were choking on the sanctions. and now theyre going to be actually probably a major power at some point pretty soon the way theyre going. but when you look at nato i was asked on a major show what do you think of nato. and you have to understand im a businessperson. i did really well. but i have common sense. and i said well ill tell you. i havent given lots of thought to nato. but two things. number one the 28 countries of nato many of them arent paying their fair share. number two  and that bothers me because we should be asking  were defending them and they should at least be paying us what theyre supposed to be paying by treaty and contract. and number two i said and very strongly nato could be obsolete because  and i was very strong on this and it was actually covered very accurately in the new york times which is unusual for the new york times to be honest  but i said they do not focus on terror. and i was very strong. and i said it numerous times. and about four months ago i read on the front page of the wall street journal that nato is opening up a major terror division. and i think thats great. and i think we should get  because we pay approximately 73 percent of the cost of nato. its a lot of money to protect other people. but im all for nato. but i said they have to focus on terror also. and theyre going to do that. and that was  believe me  im sure im not going to get credit for it  but that was largely because of what i was saying and my criticism of nato. i think we have to get nato to go into the middle east with us in addition to surrounding nations and we have to knock the hell out of isis and we have to do it fast when isis formed in this vacuum created by barack obama and secretary clinton. and believe me you were the ones that took out the troops. not only that you named the day. they couldnt believe it. they sat back probably and said i cant believe it. they said... no wait a minute. when they formed when they formed this is something that never should have happened. it should have never happened. now youre talking about taking out isis. but you were there and you were secretary of state when it was a little infant. now its in over 30 countries. and youre going to stop them. i dont think so. i did not support the war in iraq. that is a mainstream media nonsense put out by her because she  frankly i think the best person in her campaign is mainstream media. just  would you like to hear... wait a minute. i was against the war in iraq. just so you put it out. the record does not show that. the record shows that im right. when i did an interview with howard stern very lightly first time anyones asked me that i said very lightly i dont know maybe who knows. essentially. i then did an interview with neil cavuto. we talked about the economy is more important. i then spoke to sean hannity which everybody refuses to call sean hannity. i had numerous conversations with sean hannity at fox. and sean hannity said  and he called me the other day  and i spoke to him about it  he said you were totally against the war because he was for the war. and when he  excuse me. and that was before the war started. sean hannity said very strongly to me and other people  hes willing to say it but nobody wants to call him. i was against the war. he said you used to have fights with me because sean was in favor of the war. and i understand that side also not very much because we should have never been there. but nobody called sean hannity. and then they did an article in a major magazine shortly after the war started. i think in 04. but they did an article which had me totally against the war in iraq. and one of your compatriots said you know whether it was before or right after trump was definitely  because if you read this article theres no doubt. but if somebody  and ill ask the press  if somebody would call up sean hannity this was before the war started. he and i used to have arguments about the war. i said its a terrible and a stupid thing. its going to destabilize the middle east. and thats exactly what its done. its been a disaster. no no. you didnt hear what i said. well i have much better judgment than she does. theres no question about that. i also have a much better temperament than she has you know. i have a much better  she spent  let me tell you  she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on an advertising  you know they get madison avenue into a room they put names  oh temperament lets go after  i think my strongest asset maybe by far is my temperament. i have a winning temperament. i know how to win. she does not have a... wait. the aflcio the other day behind the blue screen i dont know who you were talking to secretary clinton but you were totally out of control. i said theres a person with a temperament thats got a problem. that would not start a war. no they were taunting us. wrong. its lies. that lines getting a little bit old i must say. i would like to... its not an accurate one at all. its not an accurate one. so i just want to give a lot of things  and just to respond. i agree with her on one thing. the single greatest problem the world has is nuclear armament nuclear weapons not global warming like you think and your  your president thinks. nuclear is the single greatest threat. just to go down the list we defend japan we defend germany we defend south korea we defend saudi arabia we defend countries. they do not pay us. but they should be paying us because we are providing tremendous service and were losing a fortune. thats why were losing  were losing  we lose on everything. i say who makes these  we lose on everything. all i said that its very possible that if they dont pay a fair share because this isnt 40 years ago where we could do what were doing. we cant defend japan a behemoth selling us cars by the million... well wait but its very important. all i said was they may have to defend themselves or they have to help us out. were a country that owes 20 trillion. they have to help us out. as far as the nuclear is concerned i agree. it is the single greatest threat that this country has. well i have to say that you know for what secretary clinton was saying about nuclear with russia shes very cavalier in the way she talks about various countries. but russia has been expanding their  they have a much newer capability than we do. we have not been updating from the new standpoint. i looked the other night. i was seeing b52s theyre old enough that your father your grandfather could be flying them. we are not  we are not keeping up with other countries. i would like everybody to end it just get rid of it. but i would certainly not do first strike. i think that once the nuclear alternative happens its over. at the same time we have to be prepared. i cant take anything off the table. because you look at some of these countries you look at north korea were doing nothing there. china should solve that problem for us. china should go into north korea. china is totally powerful as it relates to north korea. and by the way another one powerful is the worst deal i think ive ever seen negotiated that you started is the iran deal. iran is one of their biggest trading partners. iran has power over north korea. and when they made that horrible deal with iran they should have included the fact that they do something with respect to north korea. and they should have done something with respect to yemen and all these other places. and when asked to secretary kerry why didnt you do that. why didnt you add other things into the deal. one of the great giveaways of all time of all time including 400 million in cash. nobodys ever seen that before. that turned out to be wrong. it was actually ..7 billion in cash obviously i guess for the hostages. it certainly looks that way. so you say to yourself why didnt they make the right deal. this is one of the worst deals ever made by any country in history. the deal with iran will lead to nuclear problems. all they have to do is sit back .0 years and they dont have to do much. and theyre going to end up getting nuclear. i met with bibi netanyahu the other day. believe me hes not a happy camper. lester one thing id like to say. i will go very quickly. but i will tell you that hillary will tell you to go to her website and read all about how to defeat isis which she could have defeated by never having it you know get going in the first place. right now its getting tougher and tougher to defeat them because theyre in more and more places more and more states more and more nations. and its a big problem. and as far as japan is concerned i want to help all of our allies but we are losing billions and billions of dollars. we cannot be the policemen of the world. we cannot protect countries all over the world... ... where theyre not paying us what we need. and she doesnt say that because shes got no business ability. we need heart. we need a lot of things. but you have to have some basic ability. and sadly she doesnt have that. all of the things that shes talking about could have been taken care of during the last .0 years lets say while she had great power. but they werent taken care of. and if she ever wins this race they wont be taken care of. she doesnt have the look. she doesnt have the stamina. i said she doesnt have the stamina. and i dont believe she does have the stamina. to be president of this country you need tremendous stamina. you have  wait a minute. wait a minute lester. you asked me a question. did you ask me a question. you have to be able to negotiate our trade deals. you have to be able to negotiate thats right with japan with saudi arabia. i mean can you imagine were defending saudi arabia. and with all of the money they have were defending them and theyre not paying. all you have to do is speak to them. wait. you have so many different things you have to be able to do and i dont believe that hillary has the stamina. the world  let me tell you. let me tell you. hillary has experience but its bad experience. we have made so many bad deals during the last  so shes got experience that i agree. but its bad bad experience. whether its the iran deal that youre so in love with where we gave them .50 billion back whether its the iran deal whether its anything you can  name  you almost cant name a good deal. i agree. shes got experience but its bad experience. and this country cant afford to have another four years of that kind of experience. i never said that. i didnt say that. where did you find this. where did you find this. where did you find this. oh really. ok good. let me just tell you... you know hillary is hitting me with tremendous commercials. some of its said in entertainment. some of its said  somebody whos been very vicious to me rosie odonnell i said very tough things to her and i think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her. but you want to know the truth. i was going to say something... ... extremely rough to hillary to her family and i said to myself i cant do it. i just cant do it. its inappropriate. its not nice. but she spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads on me many of which are absolutely untrue. theyre untrue. and theyre misrepresentations. and i will tell you this lester its not nice. and i dont deserve that. but its certainly not a nice thing that shes done. its hundreds of millions of ads. and the only gratifying thing is i saw the polls come in today and with all of that money... ... 200 million is spent and im either winning or tied and ive spent practically nothing. the other day we were deporting 800 people. and perhaps they passed the wrong button they pressed the wrong button or perhaps worse than that it was corruption but these people that we were going to deport for good reason ended up becoming citizens. ended up becoming citizens. and it was 800. and now it turns out it might be .800 and they dont even know. look heres the story. i want to make america great again. im going to be able to do it. i dont believe hillary will. the answer is if she wins i will absolutely support her. well i actually agree with that. i agree with everything she said. i began this campaign because i was so tired of seeing such foolish things happen to our country. this is a great country. this is a great land. ive gotten to know the people of the country over the last yearandahalf that ive been doing this as a politician. i cannot believe im saying that about myself but i guess i have been a politician.  and my whole concept was to make america great again. when i watch the deals being made when i watch whats happening with some horrible things like obamacare where your health insurance and health care is going up by numbers that are astronomical 68 percent 59 percent 7. percent when i look at the iran deal and how bad a deal it is for us its a onesided transaction where were giving back .50 billion to a terrorist state really the number one terror state weve made them a strong country from really a very weak country just three years ago. when i look at all of the things that i see and all of the potential that our country has we have such tremendous potential whether its in business and trade where were doing so badly. last year we had almost 800 billion trade deficit. in other words trading with other countries. we had an 800 billion deficit. its hard to believe. inconceivable. you say whos making these deals. were going the make great deals. were going to have a strong border. were going to bring back law and order. just today policemen was shot two killed. and this is happening on a weekly basis. we have to bring back respect to law enforcement. at the same time we have to take care of people on all sides. we need justice. but i want to do things that havent been done including fixing and making our inner cities better for the africanamerican citizens that are so great and for the latinos hispanics and i look forward to doing it. its called make america great again.  no i didnt say that at all. i dont think you understood what was  this was locker room talk. im not proud of it. i apologize to my family. i apologize to the american people. certainly im not proud of it. but this is locker room talk. you know when we have a world where you have isis chopping off heads where you have  and frankly drowning people in steel cages where you have wars and horrible horrible sights all over where you have so many bad things happening this is like medieval times. we havent seen anything like this the carnage all over the world. and they look and they see. can you imagine the people that are frankly doing so well against us with isis. and they look at our country and they see whats going on. yes im very embarrassed by it. i hate it. but its locker room talk and its one of those things. i will knock the hell out of isis. were going to defeat isis. isis happened a number of years ago in a vacuum that was left because of bad judgment. and i will tell you i will take care of isis.  and we should get on to much more important things and much bigger things. i have great respect for women. nobody has more respect for women than i do. ive said things that frankly you hear these things i said. and i was embarrassed by it. but i have tremendous respect for women.  and women have respect for me. and i will tell you no i have not. and i will tell you that im going to make our country safe. were going to have borders in our country which we dont have now. people are pouring into our country and theyre coming in from the middle east and other places. were going to make america safe again. were going to make america great again but were going to make america safe again. and were going to make america wealthy again because if you dont do that it just  it sounds harsh to say but we have to build up the wealth of our nation.  right now other nations are taking our jobs and theyre taking our wealth.  and thats what i want to talk about. am i allowed to respond to that. i assume i am. its just words folks. its just words. those words ive been hearing them for many years. i heard them when they were running for the senate in new york where hillary was going to bring back jobs to upstate new york and she failed. ive heard them where hillary is constantly talking about the inner cities of our country which are a disaster educationwise jobwise safetywise in every way possible. im going to help the africanamericans. im going to help the latinos hispanics. i am going to help the inner cities. shes done a terrible job for the africanamericans. she wants their vote and she does nothing and then she comes back four years later. we saw that firsthand when she was united states senator. she campaigned where the primary part of her campaign...  so shes allowed to do that but im not allowed to respond.  sounds fair. it was locker room talk as i told you. that was locker room talk. im not proud of it. i am a person who has great respect for people for my family for the people of this country. and certainly im not proud of it. but that was something that happened. if you look at bill clinton far worse. mine are words and his was action. his was what hes done to women. theres never been anybody in the history politics in this nation thats been so abusive to women. so you can say any way you want to say it but bill clinton was abusive to women. hillary clinton attacked those same women and attacked them viciously. four of them here tonight. one of the women who is a wonderful woman at .2 years old was raped at .2. her client she represented got him off and shes seen laughing on two separate occasions laughing at the girl who was raped. kathy shelton that young woman is here with us tonight. so dont tell me about words. i am absolutely  i apologize for those words. but it is things that people say. but what president clinton did he was impeached he lost his license to practice law. he had to pay an 850000 fine to one of the women. paula jones whos also here tonight. and i will tell you that when hillary brings up a point like that and she talks about words that i said .. years ago i think its disgraceful and i think she should be ashamed of herself if you want to know the truth. well you owe the president an apology because as you know very well your campaign sidney blumenthal  hes another real winner that you have  and hes the one that got this started along with your campaign manager and they were on television just two weeks ago she was saying exactly that. so you really owe him an apology. youre the one that sent the pictures around your campaign sent the pictures around with president obama in a certain garb. that was long before i was ever involved so you actually owe an apology. number two michelle obama. ive gotten to see the commercials that they did on you. and ive gotten to see some of the most vicious commercials ive ever seen of michelle obama talking about you hillary. so you talk about friend. go back and take a look at those commercials a race where you lost fair and square unlike the bernie sanders race where you won but not fair and square in my opinion. and all you have to do is take a look at wikileaks and just see what they say about bernie sanders and see what deborah wasserman schultz had in mind because bernie sanders between superdelegates and deborah wasserman schultz he never had a chance. and i was so surprised to see him sign on with the devil. but when you talk about apology i think the one that you should really be apologizing for and the thing that you should be apologizing for are the 33000 emails that you deleted and that you acid washed and then the two boxes of emails and other things last week that were taken from an office and are now missing. and ill tell you what. i didnt think id say this but im going to say it and i hate to say it. but if i win i am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation because there has never been so many lies so much deception. there has never been anything like it and were going to have a special prosecutor. when i speak i go out and speak the people of this country are furious. in my opinion the people that have been longterm workers at the fbi are furious. there has never been anything like this where emails  and you get a subpoena you get a subpoena and after getting the subpoena you delete 33000 emails and then you acid wash them or bleach them as you would say very expensive process. so were going to get a special prosecutor and were going to look into it because you know what. people have been  their lives have been destroyed for doing onefifth of what youve done. and its a disgrace. and honestly you ought to be ashamed of yourself.  oh really.  because youd be in jail. and yet she didnt know the word  the letter c on a document. right. she didnt even know what that word  what that letter meant. you know its amazing. im watching hillary go over facts. and shes going after fact after fact and shes lying again because she said she  you know what she did with the email was fine. you think it was fine to delete 33000 emails. i dont think so. she said the 33000 emails had to do with her daughters wedding number one and a yoga class. well maybe well give three or three or four or five or something. 33000 emails deleted and now shes saying there wasnt anything wrong. and more importantly that was after getting a subpoena. that wasnt before. that was after. she got it from the united states congress. and ill be honest i am so disappointed in congressmen including republicans for allowing this to happen. our justice department where our husband goes on to the back of a airplane for 39 minutes talks to the attorney general days before a ruling is going to be made on her case. but for you to say that there was nothing wrong with you deleting 39000 emails again you should be ashamed of yourself. what you did  and this is after getting a subpoena from the united states congress.  you did that. wait a minute. one second. if you did that in the private sector youd be put in jail let alone after getting a subpoena from the united states congress.  oh you didnt delete them.  oh 33000. yeah.  oh yeah. what about the other .5000.  because you have nothing to say. get off this question. lets see what happens id like to know anderson why arent you bringing up the emails. id like to know. why arent you bringing...  no it hasnt. it hasnt. and it hasnt been finished at all.  its nice to  one on three. no im a gentlemen hillary. go ahead. it is such a great question and its maybe the question i get almost more than anything else outside of defense. obamacare is a disaster. you know it. we all know it. its going up at numbers that nobodys ever seen worldwide. nobodys ever seen numbers like this for health care. its only getting worse. in .7 it implodes by itself. their method of fixing it is to go back and ask congress for more money more and more money. we have right now almost 20 trillion in debt. obamacare will never work. its very bad very bad health insurance. far too expensive. and not only expensive for the person that has it unbelievably expensive for our country. its going to be one of the biggest line items very shortly. we have to repeal it and replace it with something absolutely much less expensive and something that works where your plan can actually be tailored. we have to get rid of the lines around the state artificial lines where we stop insurance companies from coming in and competing because they want  and president obama and whoever was working on it  they want to leave those lines because that gives the insurance companies essentially monopolies. we want competition. you will have the finest health care plan there is. she wants to go to a singlepayer plan which would be a disaster somewhat similar to canada. and if you havent noticed the canadians when they need a big operation when something happens they come into the united states in many cases because their system is so slow. its catastrophic in certain ways. but she wants to go to single payer which means the government basically rules everything. hillary clinton has been after this for years. obamacare was the first step. obamacare is a total disaster. and not only are your rates going up by numbers that nobodys ever believed but your deductibles are going up so that unless you get hit by a truck youre never going to be able to use it.  it is a disastrous plan and it has to be repealed and replaced.  well i just want  just one thing. first of all hillary everythings broken about it. everything. number two bernie sanders said that hillary clinton has very bad judgment. this is a perfect example of it trying to save obamacare which is a disaster.  by the way... were going to be able to. youre going to have plans... well ill tell you what it means. youre going to have plans that are so good because were going to have so much competition in the insurance industry. once we break out  once we break out the lines and allow the competition to come...  president obama  anderson excuse me. president obama by keeping those lines the boundary lines around each state it was almost gone until just very toward the end of the passage of obamacare which by the way was a fraud. you know that because jonathan gruber the architect of obamacare was said  he said it was a great lie it was a big lie. president obama said you keep your doctor you keep your plan. the whole thing was a fraud and it doesnt work. but when we get rid of those lines you will have competition and we will be able to keep preexisting well also be able to help people that cant get  dont have money because we are going to have people protected. and republicans feel this way believe it or not and strongly this way. were going to block grant into the states. were going to block grant into medicaid into the states...  ... so that we will be able to take care of people without the necessary funds to take care of themselves. well youre right about islamophobia and thats a shame. but one thing we have to do is we have to make sure that  because there is a problem. i mean whether we like it or not and we could be very politically correct but whether we like it or not there is a problem. and we have to be sure that muslims come in and report when they see something going on. when they see hatred going on they have to report it. as an example in san bernardino many people saw the bombs all over the apartment of the two people that killed .4 and wounded many many people. horribly wounded. theyll never be the same. muslims have to report the problems when they see them. and you know theres always a reason for everything. if they dont do that its a very difficult situation for our country because you look at orlando and you look at san bernardino and you look at the world trade center. go outside. look at paris. look at that horrible  these are radical islamic terrorists. and she wont even mention the word and nor will president obama. he wont use the term radical islamic terrorism. now to solve a problem you have to be able to state what the problem is or at least say the name. she wont say the name and president obama wont say the name. but the name is there. its radical islamic terror. and before you solve it you have to say the name.  first of all captain khan is an american hero and if i were president at that time he would be alive today because unlike her who voted for the war without knowing what she was doing i would not have had our people in iraq. iraq was disaster. so he would have been alive today. the muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed into a extreme vetting from certain areas of the world. hillary clinton wants to allow hundreds of thousands  excuse me. excuse me..  why dont you interrupt her. you interrupt me all the time. why dont you interrupt her. its called extreme vetting. we are going to areas like syria where theyre coming in by the tens of thousands because of barack obama. and hillary clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase over obama. people are coming into our country like we have no idea who they are where they are from what their feelings about our country is and she wants 550 percent more. this is going to be the great trojan horse of all time. we have enough problems in this country. i believe in building safe zones. i believe in having other people pay for them as an example the gulf states who are not carrying their weight but they have nothing but money and take care of people. but i dont want to have with all the problems this country has and all of the problems that you see going on hundreds of thousands of people coming in from syria when we know nothing about them. we know nothing about their values and we know nothing about their love for our country.  thats not been debunked. that has not been debunked. i was against  i was against the war in iraq. has not been debunked. and you voted for it. and you shouldnt have. well i just want to say...  excuse me. she just went about 25 seconds over her time. could i just respond to this please.  hillary clinton in terms of having people come into our country we have many criminal illegal aliens. when we want to send them back to their country their country says we dont want them. in some cases theyre murderers drug lords drug problems. and they dont want them. and hillary clinton when she was secretary of state said thats ok we cant force it into their country. let me tell you im going to force them right back into their country. theyre murderers and some very bad people. and i will tell you very strongly when bernie sanders said she had bad judgment she has really bad judgment because we are letting people into this country that are going to cause problems and crime like youve never seen. were also letting drugs pour through our southern border at a record clip. at a record clip. and it shouldnt be allowed to happen. ice just endorsed me. theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate. the border patrol agents .6500 just recently endorsed me and they endorsed me because i understand the border. she doesnt. she wants amnesty for everybody. come right in. come right over. its a horrible thing shes doing. shes got bad judgment and honestly so bad that she should never be president of the united states. that i can tell you.  well i think i should respond because  so ridiculous. look now shes blaming  she got caught in a total lie. her papers went out to all her friends at the banks goldman sachs and everybody else and she said things  wikileaks that just came out. and she lied. now shes blaming the lie on the late great abraham lincoln. thats one that i havent...  ok honest abe honest abe never lied. thats the good thing. thats the big difference between abraham lincoln and you. thats a big big difference. were talking about some difference. but as far as other elements of what she was saying i dont know putin. i think it would be great if we got along with russia because we could fight isis together as an example. but i dont know putin. but i notice anytime anything wrong happens they like to say the russians are  she doesnt know if its the russians doing the hacking. maybe there is no hacking. but they always blame russia. and the reason they blame russia because they think theyre trying to tarnish me with russia. i know nothing about russia. i know  i know about russia but i know nothing about the inner workings of russia. i dont deal there. i have no businesses there. i have no loans from russia. i have a very very great balance sheet so great that when i did the old post office on pennsylvania avenue the united states government because of my balance sheet which they actually know very well chose me to do the old post office between the white house and congress chose me to do the old post office. one of the primary area things in fact perhaps the primary thing was balance sheet. but i have no loans with russia. you could go to the united states government and they would probably tell you that because they know my sheet very well in order to get that development i had to have. now the taxes are a very simple thing. as soon as i have  first of all i pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. many of her friends took bigger deductions. warren buffett took a massive deduction. soros whos a friend of hers took a massive deduction. many of the people that are giving her all this money that she can do many more commercials than me gave her  took massive deductions. i pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. but  but as soon as my routine audit is finished ill release my returns. ill be very proud to. theyre actually quite great.  well one thing id do is get rid of carried interest. one of the greatest provisions for people like me to be honest with you i give up a lot when i run because i knock out the tax code. and she could have done this years ago by the way. shes a united states  she was a united states senator. she complains that donald trump took advantage of the tax code. well why didnt she change it. why didnt you change it when you were a senator. the reason you didnt is that all your friends take the same advantage that i do. and i do. you have provisions in the tax code that frankly we could change. but you wouldnt change it because all of these people gave you the money so you can take negative ads on donald trump. but  and i say that about a lot of things. you know ive heard hillary complaining about so many different things over the years. i wish you would have done this. but shes been there for 30 years shes been doing this stuff. she never changed. and she never will change. she never will change. were getting rid of carried interest provisions. im lowering taxes actually because i think its so important for corporations because we have corporations leaving  massive corporations and little ones little ones cant form. were getting rid of regulations which goes hand in hand with the lowering of the taxes. but were bringing the tax rate down from 35 percent to .5 percent. were cutting taxes for the middle class. and i will tell you we are cutting them big league for the middle class. and i will tell you hillary clinton is raising your taxes folks. you can look at me. shes raising your taxes really high. and what thats going to do is a disaster for the country. but she is raising your taxes and im lowering your taxes. that in itself is a big difference. we are going to be thriving again. we have no growth in this country. theres no growth. if china has a gdp of 7 percent its like a national catastrophe. were down at . percent. and thats like no growth. and were going lower in my opinion. and a lot of it has to do with the fact that our taxes are so high just about the highest in the world. and im bringing them down to one of the lower in the world. and i think its so important  one of the most important things we can do. but she is raising everybodys taxes massively.  of course i do. of course i do. and so do all of her donors or most of her donors. i know many of her donors. her donors took massive tax writeoffs.  a lot of my  excuse me anderson  a lot of my write off was depreciation and other things that hillary as a senator allowed. and shell always allow it because the people that give her all this money they want it. thats why. see i understand the tax code better than anybody thats ever run for president. hillary clinton  and its extremely complex  hillary clinton has friends that want all of these provisions including they want the carried interest provision which is very important to wall street people. but they really want the carried interest provision which i believe hillarys leaving. very interesting why shes leaving carried interest. but i will tell you that number one i pay tremendous numbers of taxes. i absolutely used it. and so did warren buffett and so did george soros and so did many of the other people that hillary is getting money from. now i wont mention their names because theyre rich but theyre not famous. so we wont make them famous.  no but i pay tax and i pay federal tax too. but i have a writeoff a lot of its depreciation which is a wonderful charge. i love depreciation. you know shes given it to us. hey if she had a problem  for 30 years shes been doing this anderson. i say it all the time. she talks about health care. why didnt she do something about it. she talks about taxes. why didnt she do something about it. she doesnt do anything about anything other than talk. with her its all talk and no action.  and again bernie sanders its really bad judgment. she has made bad judgment not only on taxes. shes made bad judgments on libya on syria on iraq. i mean her and obama whether you like it or not the way they got out of iraq the vacuum theyve left thats why isis formed in the first place. they started from that little area and now theyre in 32 different nations hillary. congratulations. great job.  why didnt you do it. why didnt you do it. oh really.  you could have done it if you were an effective  if you were an effective senator you could have done it. if you were an effective senator you could have done it. but you were not an effective senator.  she said a lot of things that were false. i mean i think we should be allowed to maybe...  excuse me. because she has been a disaster as a senator. a disaster. first of all she was there as secretary of state with the socalled line in the sand which...  ok. but you were in contact  excuse me. you were... you were in total contact with the white house and perhaps sadly obama probably still listened to you. i dont think he would be listening to you very much anymore. obama draws the line in the sand. it was laughed at all over the world what happened. now with that being said she talks tough against russia. but our nuclear program has fallen way behind and theyve gone wild with their nuclear program. not good. our government shouldnt have allowed that to happen. russia is new in terms of nuclear. we are old. were tired. were exhausted in terms of nuclear. a very bad thing. now she talks tough she talks really tough against putin and against assad. she talks in favor of the rebels. she doesnt even know who the rebels are. you know every time we take rebels whether its in iraq or anywhere else were arming people. and you know what happens. they end up being worse than the people. look at what she did in libya with gadhafi. gadhafis out. its a mess. and by the way isis has a good chunk of their oil. im sure you probably have heard that. it was a disaster. because the fact is almost everything shes done in foreign policy has been a mistake and its been a disaster. but if you look at russia just take a look at russia and look at what they did this week where i agree she wasnt there but possibly shes consulted. we sign a peace treaty. everyones all excited. well what russia did with assad and by the way with iran who you made very powerful with the dumbest deal perhaps ive ever seen in the history of dealmaking the iran deal with the .50 billion with the ..7 billion in cash which is enough to fill up this room. but look at that deal. iran now and russia are now against us. so she wants to fight. she wants to fight for rebels. theres only one problem. you dont even know who the rebels are. so whats the purpose.  and one thing i have to say. i dont like assad at all but assad is killing isis. russia is killing isis. and iran is killing isis. and those three have now lined up because of our weak foreign policy.  ok. he and i havent spoken and i disagree. i disagree.  i think you have to knock out isis. right now syria is fighting isis. we have people that want to fight both at the same time. but syria is no longer syria. syria is russia and its iran who she made strong and kerry and obama made into a very powerful nation and a very rich nation very very quickly very very quickly. i believe we have to get isis. we have to worry about isis before we can get too much more involved. she had a chance to do something with syria. they had a chance. and that was the line. and she didnt.  i think aleppo is a disaster humanitarianwise.  i think that it basically has fallen. ok. it basically has fallen. let me tell you something. you take a look at mosul. the biggest problem i have with the stupidity of our foreign policy we have mosul. they think a lot of the isis leaders are in mosul. so we have announcements coming out of washington and coming out of iraq we will be attacking mosul in three weeks or four weeks. well all of these bad leaders from isis are leaving mosul. why cant they do it quietly. why cant they do the attack make it a sneak attack and after the attack is made inform the american public that weve knocked out the leaders weve had a tremendous success. people leave. why do they have to say were going to be attacking mosul within the next four to six weeks which is what theyre saying. how stupid is our country.  i cant think of any. i cant think of any. and im pretty good at it. and we have general flynn. and we have  look i have 200 generals and admirals who endorsed me. i have 2. congressional medal of honor recipients who endorsed me. we talk about it all the time. they understand why cant they do something secretively where they go in and they knock out the leadership. how  why would these people stay there. ive been reading now...  ... for weeks  ive been reading now for weeks about mosul that its the harbor of where  you know between raqqa and mosul this is where they think the isis leaders are. why would they be saying  theyre not staying there anymore. theyre gone. because everybodys talking about how iraq which is us with our leadership goes in to fight mosul. now with these 200 admirals and generals they cant believe it. all i say is this. general george patton general douglas macarthur are spinning in their grave at the stupidity of what were doing in the middle east.  everything. you know whats funny. she went over a minute over and you dont stop her. when i go one second over its like a big deal.  its really  its really very interesting. absolutely. i mean she calls our people deplorable a large group and irredeemable. i will be a president for all of our people. and ill be a president that will turn our inner cities around and will give strength to people and will give economics to people and will bring jobs back. because nafta signed by her husband is perhaps the greatest disaster trade deal in the history of the world. not in this country. it stripped us of manufacturing jobs. we lost our jobs. we lost our money. we lost our plants. it is a disaster. and now she wants to sign tpp even though she says now shes for it. she called it the gold standard. and by the way at the last debate she lied because it turned out that she did say the gold standard and she said she didnt say it. they actually said that she lied. ok. and she lied. but shes lied about a lot of things.  i would be a president for all of the people african americans the inner cities. devastating whats happening to our inner cities. shes been talking about it for years. as usual she talks about it nothing happens. she doesnt get it done. same with the latino americans the hispanic americans. the same exact thing. they talk they dont get it done. you go into the inner cities and  you see its 45 percent poverty. african americans now 45 percent poverty in the inner cities. the education is a disaster. jobs are essentially nonexistent. i mean its  you know and ive been saying at big speeches where i have 20000 and 30000 people what do you have to lose. it cant get any worse. and shes been talking about the inner cities for 25 years. nothings going to ever happen. let me tell you if shes president of the united states nothings going to happen. its just going to be talk. and all of her friends the taxes we were talking about and i would just get it by osmosis. shes not doing any me favors. but by doing all the others favors shes doing me favors.  but i will tell you shes all talk. it doesnt get done. all you have to do is take a look at her senate run. take a look at upstate new york.  it turned out to be a disaster. ... but we believed that we could make the country better. and i was proud of that. we have a divided nation. we have a very divided nation. you look at charlotte. you look at baltimore. you look at the violence thats taking place in the inner cities chicago you take a look at washington d.c. we have an increase in murder within our cities the biggest in 45 years. we have a divided nation because people like her  and believe me she has tremendous hate in her heart. and when she said deplorables she meant it. and when she said irredeemable theyre irredeemable you didnt mention that but when she said theyre irredeemable to me that might have been even worse.  shes got tremendous  shes got tremendous hatred. and this country cannot take another four years of barack obama and thats what youre getting with her.  no there wasnt check out a sex tape. it was just take a look at the person that she built up to be this wonderful girl scout who was no girl scout.  by the way just so you understand when she said 3 oclock in the morning take a look at benghazi. she said who is going to answer the call at 3 oclock in the morning. guess what. she didnt answer it because when ambassador stevens...  ... 600  wait a minute anderson 600 times. well she said she was awake at 3 oclock in the morning and she also sent a tweet out at 3 oclock in the morning but i wont even mention that. but she said shell be awake. whos going  the famous thing were going to answer our call at 3 oclock in the morning. guess what happened. ambassador stevens  ambassador stevens sent 600 requests for help. and the only one she talked to was sidney blumenthal whos her friend and not a good guy by the way. so you know she shouldnt be talking about that. now tweeting happens to be a modern day form of communication. i mean you can like it or not like it. i have between facebook and twitter i have almost 25 million people. its a very effective way of communication. so you can put it down but it is a very effective form of communication. im not unproud of it to be honest with you.  im shocked to hear that. we have the slowest growth since .929. it is  our country has the slowest growth and jobs are a disaster. justice scalia great judge died recently. and we have a vacancy. i am looking to appoint judges very much in the mold of justice scalia. im looking for judges  and ive actually picked 20 of them so that people would see highly respected highly thought of and actually very beautifully reviewed by just about everybody. but people that will respect the constitution of the united states. and i think that this is so important. also the second amendment which is totally under siege by people like hillary clinton. theyll respect the second amendment and what it stands for what it represents. so important to me. now hillary mentioned something about contributions just so you understand. so i will have in my race more than .00 million put in  of my money meaning im not taking all of this big money from all of these different corporations like shes doing. what i ask is this. so im putting in more than  by the time its finished ill have more than .00 million invested. pretty much selffunding money. were raising money for the republican party and were doing tremendously on the small donations 6. average or so. i ask hillary why doesnt  she made 250 million by being in office. she used the power of her office to make a lot of money. why isnt she funding not for .00 million but why dont you put .0 million or 20 million or 25 million or 30 million into your own campaign. its 30 million less for special interests that will tell you exactly what to do and it would really i think be a nice sign to the american public. why arent you putting some money in. you have a lot of it. youve made a lot of it because of the fact that youve been in office. made a lot of it while you were secretary of state actually. so why arent you putting money into your own campaign. im just curious.  absolutely. i think its such a great question because energy is under siege by the obama administration. under absolutely siege. the epa environmental protection agency is killing these energy companies. and foreign companies are now coming in buying our  buying so many of our different plants and then rejiggering the plant so that they can take care of their oil. we are killing  absolutely killing our energy business in this country. now im all for alternative forms of energy including wind including solar et cetera. but we need much more than wind and solar. and you look at our miners. hillary clinton wants to put all the miners out of business. there is a thing called clean coal. coal will last for .000 years in this country. now we have natural gas and so many other things because of technology. we have unbelievable  we have found over the last seven years we have found tremendous wealth right under our feet. so good. especially when you have 20 trillion in debt. i will bring our energy companies back. theyll be able to compete. theyll make money. theyll pay off our national debt. theyll pay off our tremendous budget deficits which are tremendous. but we are putting our energy companies out of business. we have to bring back our workers. you take a look at whats happening to steel and the cost of steel and china dumping vast amounts of steel all over the united states which essentially is killing our steelworkers and our steel companies. we have to guard our energy companies. we have to make it possible. the epa is so restrictive that they are putting our energy companies out of business. and all you have to do is go to a great place like west virginia or places like ohio which is phenomenal or places like pennsylvania and you see what theyre doing to the people miners and others in the energy business. its a disgrace.  its an absolute disgrace. well i consider her statement about my children to be a very nice compliment. i dont know if it was meant to be a compliment but it is a great  im very proud of my children. and theyve done a wonderful job and theyve been wonderful wonderful kids. so i consider that a compliment. i will say this about hillary. she doesnt quit. she doesnt give up. i respect that. i tell it like it is. shes a fighter. i disagree with much of what shes fighting for. i do disagree with her judgment in many cases. but she does fight hard and she doesnt quit and she doesnt give up. and i consider that to be a very good trait.  well first of all its great to be with you and thank you everybody. the supreme court its what its all about. our country is so so  its just so imperative that we have the right justices. something happened recently where justice ginsburg made some very very inappropriate statements toward me and toward a tremendous number of people many many millions of people that i represent. and she was forced to apologize. and apologize she did. but these were statements that should never ever have been made. we need a supreme court that in my opinion is going to uphold the second amendment and all amendments but the second amendment which is under absolute siege. i believe if my opponent should win this race which i truly dont think will happen we will have a second amendment which will be a very very small replica of what it is right now. but i feel that its absolutely important that we uphold because of the fact that it is under such trauma. i feel that the justices that i am going to appoint  and ive named 20 of them  the justices that im going to appoint will be prolife. they will have a conservative bent. they will be protecting the second amendment. they are great scholars in all cases and theyre people of tremendous respect. they will interpret the constitution the way the founders wanted it interpreted. and i believe thats very very important. i dont think we should have justices appointed that decide what they want to hear. its all about the constitution of  of  and so important the constitution the way it was meant to be. and those are the people that i will appoint.  well the d.c. vs. heller decision was very strongly  and she was extremely angry about it. i watched. i mean she was very very angry when upheld. and justice scalia was so involved. and it was a wellcrafted decision. but hillary was extremely upset extremely angry. and people that believe in the second amendment and believe in it very strongly were very upset with what she had to say.  well let me just tell you before we go any further. in chicago which has the toughest gun laws in the united states probably you could say by far they have more gun violence than any other city. so we have the toughest laws and you have tremendous gun violence. i am a very strong supporter of the second amendment. and i am  i dont know if hillary was saying it in a sarcastic manner but im very proud to have the endorsement of the nra. and its the earliest endorsement theyve ever given to anybody who ran for president. so im very honored by all of that. we are going to appoint justices  this is the best way to help the second amendment. we are going to appoint justices that will feel very strongly about the second amendment that will not do damage to the second amendment.  right. well if that would happen because i am prolife and i will be appointing prolife judges i would think that that will go back to the individual states.  if they overturned it it will go back to the states.  well if we put another two or perhaps three justice on thats really whats going to be  that will happen. and thatll happen automatically in my opinion because i am putting prolife justices on the court. i will say this it will go back to the states and the states will then make a determination.  well i think its terrible. if you go with what hillary is saying in the ninth month you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth of the baby. now you can say that thats ok and hillary can say that thats ok. but its not ok with me because based on what shes saying and based on where shes going and where shes been you can take the baby and rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month on the final day. and thats not acceptable.  and honestly nobody has business doing what i just said doing that as late as one or two or three or four days prior to birth. nobody has that.  well first of all she wants to give amnesty which is a disaster and very unfair to all of the people that are waiting on line for many many years. we need strong borders. in the audience tonight we have four mothers of  i mean these are unbelievable people that ive gotten to know over a period of years whose children have been killed brutally killed by people that came into the country illegally. you have thousands of mothers and fathers and relatives all over the country. theyre coming in illegally. drugs are pouring in through the border. we have no country if we have no border. hillary wants to give amnesty. she wants to have open borders. the border  as you know the border patrol agents .6500plus ice last week endorsed me. first time theyve ever endorsed a candidate. it means their job is tougher. but they know whats going on. they know it better than anybody. they want strong borders. they feel we have to have strong borders. i was up in new hampshire the other day. the biggest complaint they have  its with all of the problems going on in the world many of the problems caused by hillary clinton and by barack obama. all of the problems  the single biggest problem is heroin that pours across our southern border. its just pouring and destroying their youth. its poisoning the blood of their youth and plenty of other people. we have to have strong borders. we have to keep the drugs out of our country. we are  right now were getting the drugs theyre getting the cash. we need strong borders. we need absolute  we cannot give amnesty. now i want to build the wall. we need the wall. and the border patrol ice they all want the wall. we stop the drugs. we shore up the border. one of my first acts will be to get all of the drug lords all of the bad ones  we have some bad bad people in this country that have to go out. were going to get them out were going to secure the border. and once the border is secured at a later date well make a determination as to the rest. but we have some bad hombres here and were going to get them out.  chris i think its...  i think i should respond to that. first of all i had a very good meeting with the president of mexico. very nice man. we will be doing very much better with mexico on trade deals. believe me. the nafta deal signed by her husband is one of the worst deals ever made of any kind signed by anybody. its a disaster. hillary clinton wanted the wall. hillary clinton fought for the wall in 2006 or thereabouts. now she never gets anything done so naturally the wall wasnt built. but hillary clinton wanted the wall.  we are a country of laws. we either have  and by the way... well  well but she said one thing.  and the wall. president obama has moved millions of people out. nobody knows about it nobody talks about it. but under obama millions of people have been moved out of this country. theyve been deported. she doesnt want to say that but thats whats happened and thats what happened big league. as far as moving these people out and moving  we either have a country or we dont. were a country of laws. we either have a border or we dont. now you can come back in and you can become a citizen. but its very unfair. we have millions of people that did it the right way. theyre on line. theyre waiting. were going to speed up the process big league because its very inefficient. but theyre on line and theyre waiting to become citizens. very unfair that somebody runs across the border becomes a citizen under her plan you have open borders. you would have a disaster on trade and you will have a disaster with your open borders.  but what she doesnt say is that president obama has deported millions and millions of people just the way it is. thank you. that was a great pivot off the fact that she wants open borders ok. how did we get on to putin.  so just to finish on the borders... she wants open borders. people are going to pour into our country. people are going to come in from syria. she wants 550 percent more people than barack obama and he has thousands and thousands of people. they have no idea where they come from. and you see we are going to stop radical islamic terrorism in this country. she wont even mention the words and neither will president obama. so i just want to tell you she wants open borders. now we can talk about putin. i dont know putin. he said nice things about me. if we got along well that would be good. if russia and the united states got along well and went after isis that would be good. he has no respect for her. he has no respect for our president. and ill tell you what were in very serious trouble because we have a country with tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads  .800 by the way  where they expanded and we didnt .800 nuclear warheads. and shes playing chicken. look putin...  ... from everything i see has no respect for this person.  no puppet. no puppet. youre the puppet! no youre the puppet.  she has no idea whether its russia china or anybody else.  she has no idea. hillary you have no idea.  and our country has no idea. yeah i doubt it. i doubt it.  she doesnt like putin because putin has outsmarted her at every step of the way. excuse me. putin has outsmarted her in syria. hes outsmarted her every step of the way. yes thats fine.  by russia or anybody else. of course i condemn. of course i  i dont know putin. i have no idea. i never met putin. this is not my best friend. but if the united states got along with russia wouldnt be so bad. let me tell you putin has outsmarted her and obama at every single step of the way. whether its syria you name it. missiles. take a look at the start up that they signed. the russians have said according to many many reports i cant believe they allowed us to do this. they create warheads and we cant. the russians cant believe it. she has been outsmarted by putin. and all you have to do is look at the middle east. theyve taken over. weve spent 6 trillion. theyve taken over the middle east. she has been outsmarted and outplayed worse than anybody ive ever seen in any government whatsoever.  and she always will be. wrong. i have 200 generals... ... and admirals 2. endorsing me 2. congressional medal of honor recipients. as far as japan and other countries we are being ripped off by everybody in the  were defending other countries. we are spending a fortune doing it. they have the bargain of the century. all i said is we have to renegotiate these agreements because our country cannot afford to defend saudi arabia japan germany south korea and many other places. we cannot continue to afford  she took that as saying nuclear weapons.  look shes been proven to be a liar on so many different ways. this is just another lie.  theres no quote. youre not going to find a quote from me. and defend yourselves. and defend yourselves. i didnt say nuclear. and defend yourself. yes. well first of all before i start on my plan her plan is going to raise taxes and even double your taxes. her tax plan is a disaster. and she can say all she wants about college tuition. and im a big proponent. were going to do a lot of things for college tuition. but the rest of the publics going to be paying for it. we will have a massive massive tax increase under hillary clintons plan.  but id like to start off where we left because when i said japan and germany and im  not to single them out but south korea these are very rich powerful countries. saudi arabia nothing but money. we protect saudi arabia. why arent they paying. she immediately  when she heard this i questioned it and i questioned nato. why arent the nato questioned  why arent they paying. because they werent paying. since i did this  this was a year ago  all of a sudden theyre paying. and ive been given a lot  a lot of credit for it. all of a sudden theyre starting to pay up. they have to pay up. were protecting people they have to pay up. and im a big fan of nato. but they have to pay up. she comes out and said we love our allies we think our allies are great. well its awfully hard to get them to pay up when you have somebody saying we think how great they are. we have to tell japan in a very nice way we have to tell germany all of these countries south korea we have to say you have to help us out. we have during his regime during president obamas regime weve doubled our national debt. were up to 20 trillion. so my plan  were going to renegotiate trade deals. were going to have a lot of free trade. were going to have free trade more free trade than we have right now. but we have horrible deals. our jobs are being taken out by the deal that her husband signed nafta one of the worst deals ever. our jobs are being sucked out of our economy. you look at all of the places that i just left you go to pennsylvania you go to ohio you go to florida you go to any of them. you go upstate new york. our jobs have fled to mexico and other places. were bringing our jobs back. i am going to renegotiate nafta. and if i cant make a great deal  then were going to terminate nafta and were going to create new deals. were going to have trade but were going  were going to terminate it were going to make a great trade deal. and if we cant were going to do it  were going to go a separate way because it has been a disaster. we are going to cut taxes massively. were going to cut business taxes massively. theyre going to start hiring people. were going to bring the 2.5 trillion...  ... thats offshore back into the country. we are going to start the engine rolling again because...  ... right now our country is dying at . percent gdp.  you cant. correct. over a .0year period. so i just left some high representatives of india. theyre growing at 8 percent. china is growing at 7 percent. and that for them is a catastrophically low number. we are growing  our last report came out  and its right around the . percent level. and i think its going down. last week as you know the end of last week they came out with an anemic jobs report. a terrible jobs report. in fact i said is that the last jobs report before the election. because if it is i should win easily it was so bad. the report was so bad. look our country is stagnant. weve lost our jobs. weve lost our businesses. were not making things anymore relatively speaking. our product is pouring in from china pouring in from vietnam pouring in from all over the world. ive visited so many communities. this has been such an incredible education for me chris. ive gotten to know so many  ive developed so many friends over the last year. and they cry when they see whats happened. i pass factories that were thriving 20 25 years ago and because of the bill that her husband signed and she blessed .00 percent it is just horrible whats happened to these people in these communities. now she can say that her husband did well but boy did they suffer as nafta kicked in because it didnt really kick in very much but it kicked in after they left. boy did they suffer. that was one of the worst things thats ever been signed by our country. now she wants to sign transpacific partnership. and she wants it. she lied when she said she didnt call it the gold standard in one of the debates. she totally lied. she did call it the gold standard. and they actually fact checked and they said i was right. i was so honored.  and that will be as bad as nafta. well let me just say  let me just say.  let me ask a simple question. shes been doing this for 30 years. why the hell didnt you do it over the last .5 20 years.  you were very much involved  excuse me. my turn. you were very much involved in every aspect of this country. very much. and you do have experience. i say the one thing you have over me is experience but its bad experience because what youve done has turned out badly. for 30 years youve been in a position to help and if you say that i use steel or i use something else i  make it impossible for me to do that. i wouldnt mind. the problem is you talk but you dont get anything done hillary. you dont. just like when you ran the state department 6 billion was missing. how do you miss 6 billion. you ran the state department 6 billion was either stolen. they dont know. its gone 6 billion. if you become president this country is going to be in some mess. believe me.  give me a break. well i think i did a much better job. i built a massive company a great company some of the greatest assets anywhere in the world worth many many billions of dollars. i started with a . million loan. i agree with that. its a . million loan. but i built a phenomenal company. and if we could run our country the way ive run my company we would have a country that you would be so proud of. you would even be proud of it. and frankly when you look at her real record take a look at syria. take a look at the migration. take a look at libya. take a look at iraq. she gave us isis because her and obama created this huge vacuum and a small group came out of that huge vacuum because when  we should never have been in iraq but once we were there we should have never got out the way they wanted to get out. she gave us isis as sure as you are sitting there. and what happened is now isis is in 32 countries. and now i listen how shes going to get rid of isis. shes going to get rid of nobody.  well first of all those stories have been largely debunked. those people  i dont know those people. i have a feeling how they came. i believe it was her campaign that did it. just like if you look at what came out today on the clips where i was wondering what happened with my rally in chicago and other rallies where we had such violence. shes the one and obama that caused the violence. they hired people  they paid them .500 and theyre on tape saying be violent cause fights do bad things. i would say the only way  because those stories are all totally false i have to say that. and i didnt even apologize to my wife whos sitting right here because i didnt do anything. i didnt know any of these  i didnt see these women. these women  the woman on the plane the  i think they want either fame or her campaign did it. and i think its her campaign. because what i saw what they did which is a criminal act by the way where theyre telling people to go out and start fistfights and start violence. and ill tell you what in particular in chicago people were hurt and people could have been killed in that riot. and that was now all on tape started by her. i believe chris that she got these people to step forward. if it wasnt they get their .0 minutes of fame. but they were all totally  it was all fiction. it was lies and it was fiction.  i did not say that. i did not say that. i did not say that. nobody has more respect for women than i do. nobody. nobody has more respect... and frankly those stories have been largely debunked. and i really want to just talk about something slightly different. she mentions this which is all fiction all fictionalized probably or possibly started by her and her very sleazy campaign. but i will tell you what isnt fictionalized are her emails where she destroyed 33000 emails criminally criminally after getting a subpoena from the united states congress. what happened to the fbi i dont know. we have a great general fourstar general today you read it in all of the papers going to potentially serve five years in jail for lying to the fbi. one lie. shes lied hundreds of times to the people to congress and to the fbi. hes going to probably go to jail. this is a fourstar general. and she gets away with it and she can run for the presidency of the united states. thats really what you should be talking about not fiction where somebody wants fame or where they come out of her crooked campaign.  wrong. so sad when she talks about violence at my rallies and she caused the violence. its on tape.  the other things are false but honestly id love to talk about getting rid of isis and id love to talk about other things...  ... but those other charges as she knows are false.  i think that its been very well... its been very well studied. ... and its a criminal enterprise and so many people know it.  its a criminal enterprise. saudi arabia giving 25 million qatar all of these countries. you talk about women and womens rights. so these are people that push gays off business  off buildings. these are people that kill women and treat women horribly. and yet you take their money. so id like to ask you right now why dont you give back the money that youve taken from certain countries that treat certain groups of people so horribly. why dont you give back the money. i think it would be a great gesture. because she takes a tremendous amount of money. and you take a look at the people of haiti. i was at a little haiti the other day in florida. and i want to tell you they hate the clintons because whats happened in haiti with the clinton foundation is a disgrace. and you know it and they know it and everybody knows it.  they dont want you to help them anymore. id like to mention one thing. trump foundation small foundation. people contribute i contribute. the money goes .00 percent  .00 percent goes to different charities including a lot of military. i dont get anything. i dont buy boats. i dont buy planes. what happens  the money goes to them.  no it was  we put up the american flag. and thats it. they put up the american flag. we fought for the right in palm beach to put up the american flag.  there was. there was. and by the way...  ... the money  the money went to fisher house where they build houses  the money that youre talking about went to fisher house where they build houses for veterans and disabled vets.  so let me just tell you very quickly were entitled because of the laws that people like her passed to take massive amounts of depreciation on other charges and we do it. and all of her donors  just about all of them  i know buffett took hundreds of millions of dollars soros george soros took hundreds of millions of dollars...  let me just explain. most of her donors have done the same thing as i do. you know what she should have done. and you know hillary what you should have done you should have changed the law when you were a united states senator...  ... because your donors and your special interests are doing the same thing as i do except even more so.  you should have changed the law. but you wont change the law because you take in so much money. i mean i sat in my apartment today on a very beautiful hotel down the street known as trump...  but i will tell you i sat there ... i sat there watching ad after ad after ad false ad. all paid for by your friends on wall street that gave so much money because they know youre going to protect them. and frankly you should have changed the laws.  if you dont like what i did you should have changed the laws.  i will look at it at the time. im not looking at anything now. ill look at it at the time. what ive seen  what ive seen is so bad. first of all the media is so dishonest and so corrupt and the pileon is so amazing. the new york times actually wrote an article about it but they dont even care. its so dishonest. and theyve poisoned the mind of the voters. but unfortunately for them i think the voters are seeing through it. i think theyre going to see through it. well find out on november 8th. but i think theyre going to see through it.  if you look  excuse me chris  if you look at your voter rolls you will see millions of people that are registered to vote  millions this isnt coming from me  this is coming from pew report and other places  millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldnt be registered to vote. so let me just give you one other thing. so i talk about the corrupt media. i talk about the millions of people  tell you one other thing. she shouldnt be allowed to run. its crooked  shes  shes guilty of a very very serious crime. she should not be allowed to run. and just in that respect i say its rigged because she should never...  chris she should never have been allowed to run for the presidency based on what she did with emails and so many other things.  what im saying is that i will tell you at the time. ill keep you in suspense. ok. should have gotten it. i think what the fbi did and what the department of justice did including meeting with her husband the attorney general in the back of an airplane on the tarmac in arizona i think its disgraceful. i think its a disgrace.  i think weve never had a situation so bad in this country. let me tell you mosul is so sad. we had mosul. but when she left when she took everybody out we lost mosul. now were fighting again to get mosul. the problem with mosul and what they wanted to do is they wanted to get the leaders of isis who they felt were in mosul. about three months ago i started reading that they want to get the leaders and theyre going to attack mosul. whatever happened to the element of surprise ok. we announce were going after mosul. i have been reading about going after mosul now for about  how long is it hillary three months. these people have all left. theyve all left. the element of surprise. douglas macarthur george patton spinning in their graves when they see the stupidity of our country. so were now fighting for mosul that we had. all she had to do was stay there and now were going in to get it. but you know who the big winner in mosul is going to be after we eventually get it. and the only reason they did it is because shes running for the office of president and they want to look tough. they want to look good. he violated the red line in the sand and he made so many mistakes made all the mistakes. thats why we have the great migration. but she wanted to look good for the election. so theyre going in. but whos going to get mosul really. well take mosul eventually. but the way  if you look at whats happening much tougher than they thought. much much tougher. much more dangerous. going to be more deaths that they thought. but the leaders that we wanted to get are all gone because theyre smart. they say what do we need this for. so mosul is going to be a wonderful thing. and iran should write us a letter of thank you just like the really stupid  the stupidest deal of all time a deal thats going to give iran absolutely nuclear weapons. iran should write us yet another letter saying thank you very much because iran as i said many years ago iran is taking over iraq something theyve wanted to do forever but weve made it so easy for them. so were now going to take mosul. and do you know whos going to be the beneficiary. iran. oh yeah theyre making  i mean they are outsmarting  look youre not there you might be involved in that decision. but you were there when you took everybody out of mosul and out of iraq. you shouldnt have been in iraq but you did vote for it. you shouldnt have been in iraq but once you were in iraq you should have never left the way.  the point is the big winner is going to be iran.  wrong. wrong. wrong. chris we dont gain anything.  iran is taking over iraq. iran is taking over iraq. we dont gain anything. if they did it by surprise we could have gained if they did it by surprise. no you are the one thats unfit. you know wikileaks just actually came out  john podesta said some horrible things about you and boy was he right. he said some beauties. and you know bernie sanders he said you have bad judgment. you do. and if you think that going into mosul after we let the world know were going in and all of the people that we really wanted  the leaders  theyre all gone. if you think that was good then you do. now john podesta said you have terrible instincts. bernie sanders said you have bad judgment. i agree with both.  which is a big mistake. its a catastrophe. i mean... ... its a mess. have you seen it. have you seen it. have you seen whats happening to aleppo. ok so it hasnt fallen. take a look at it.  thats right. and they are being slaughtered... ... because of bad decisions. well aleppo is a disaster. its a humanitarian nightmare. but it has fallen from the  from any standpoint. i mean what do you need a signed document. take a look at aleppo. it is so sad when you see whats happened. and a lot of this is because of hillary clinton because whats happened is by fighting assad who turned out to be a lot tougher than she thought and now shes going to say oh he loves assad shes  hes just much tougher and much smarter than her and obama. and everyone thought he was gone two years ago three years ago. he  he aligned with russia. he now also aligned with iran who we made very powerful. we gave them .50 billion back. we give them ..7 billion in cash. i mean cash. bundles of cash as big as this stage. we gave them ..7 billion. now they have  he has aligned with russia and with iran. they dont want isis but they have other things because were backing  were backing rebels. we dont know who the rebels are. were giving them lots of money lots of everything. we dont know who the rebels are. and when and if  and its not going to happen because you have russia and you have iran now. but if they ever did overthrow assad you might end up with  as bad as assad is and hes a bad guy but you may very well end up with worse than assad. if she did nothing wed be in much better shape. and this is whats caused the great migration where shes taking in tens of thousands of syrian refugees who probably in many cases  not probably who are definitely...  ... in many cases isisaligned and we now have them in our country and wait until you see  this is going to be the great trojan horse. and wait until you see what happens in the coming years. lots of luck hillary. thanks a lot for doing a great job.  but i just have to... its so ridiculous what she  she will defeat isis. we should have never let isis happen in the first place. and right now theyre in 32 countries.  we should have  wait one second. they had a ceasefire three weeks ago. a ceasefire the united states russia and syria. and during the ceasefire russia took over vast swatches of land and then they said we dont want the ceasefire anymore. we are so outplayed on missiles on ceasefires. they are outplayed. now she wasnt there. i assume she had nothing to do with it. but our country is so outplayed by putin and assad and by the way  and by iran. nobody can believe how stupid our leadership is.  well i say theyre wrong because im going to create tremendous jobs. and were bringing gdp from really . percent which is what it is now and if she got in it will be less than zero. but were bringing it from . percent up to 4 percent. and i actually think we can go higher than 4 percent. i think you can go to 5 percent or 6 percent. and if we do you dont have to bother asking your question because we have a tremendous machine. we will have created a tremendous economic machine once again. to do that were taking back jobs. were not going to let our companies be raided by other countries where we lose all our jobs we dont make our product anymore. its very sad. but im going to create a  the kind of a country that we were from the standpoint of industry. we used to be there. weve given it up. weve become very very sloppy. weve had people that are political hacks making the biggest deals in the world bigger than companies. you take these big companies these trade deals are far bigger than these companies and yet we dont use our great leaders many of whom back me and many of whom back hillary i must say. but we dont use those people. those are the people  these are the greatest negotiators in the world. we have the greatest businesspeople in the world. we have to use them to negotiate our trade deals. we use political hacks. we use people that get the position because they gave  they made a campaign contribution and theyre dealing with china and people that are very much smarter than they are. so we have to use our great people. but that being said we will create an economic machine the likes of which we havent seen in many decades. and people chris will again go back to work and theyll make a lot of money. and well have companies that will grow and expand and start from new.  yeah yeah weve heard  weve heard this before hillary.  weve heard this before. thank you hillary. could i just respond.  because i did disagree with ronald reagan very strongly on trade. i disagreed with him. we should have been much tougher on trade even then. ive been waiting for years. nobody does it right. and frankly now were going to do it right.  im cutting taxes. were going to grow the economy. its going to grow at a record rate of growth. no its going to totally help you. and one thing we have to do repeal and replace the disaster known as obamacare. its destroying our country. its destroying our businesses our small business and our big businesses. we have to repeal and replace obamacare. you take a look at the kind of numbers that that will cost us in the year .7 it is a disaster. if we dont repeal and replace  now its probably going to die of its own weight. but obamacare has to go. its  the premiums are going up 60 percent 70 percent 80 percent. next year theyre going to go up over .00 percent. and im really glad that the premiums have started  at least the people see whats happening because she wants to keep obamacare and she wants to make it even worse and it cant get any worse. bad health care at the most expensive price. we have to repeal and replace obamacare.  such a nasty woman. your husband disagrees with you. shes raising the money from the people she wants to control. doesnt work that way. but when i started this campaign i started it very strongly. its called make america great again. were going to make america great. we have a depleted military. it has to be helped has to be fixed. we have the greatest people on earth in our military. we dont take care of our veterans. we take care of illegal immigrants people that come into the country illegally better than we take care of our vets. that cant happen. our policemen and women are disrespected. we need law and order but we need justice too. our inner cities are a disaster. you get shot walking to the store. they have no education. they have no jobs. i will do more for africanamericans and latinos than she can ever do in .0 lifetimes. all shes done is talk to the africanamericans and to the latinos but they get the vote and then they come back they say well see you in four years. we are going to make america strong again and we are going to make america great again and it has to start now. we cannot take four more years of barack obama and thats what you get when you get her.  